Bryan,

I recently had to do the same with one of my controllers.  I wrote up a list
of steps I did when I took mine apart.  Hey they are

Perform the following steps

1) Tools:  Miniature flat tip screwdriver
           Small phillips tip (crosstip) screwdriver
           Heat gun (a good blow dryer is ok)
           3m Spray adhesive or equivalent  (contact cement is ok)
           Toothpick
           Clean and Dry Fingers!!!

2) The top of the controller is actually a thick plastic sticker.  When it's
   peeled back the screws (6) are exposed.

3) To remove the sticker I suggest using the heat gun to heat the sticker.
   This will make the sticker easier to peel off.  BE CARFUL WITH THE HEAT!!!

4) Once heated use the miniature flat tip screwdrive to lift one of the corners
   of the sticker.  Don't lift it too far!  Just enough to get a hold with your
   clean fingers.  Since the gap between the sticker is very small you really
   need a small screwdriver.  A dentist's pick might be used but be careful of
   the sharp point.

5) Once you can grasp the sticker with you fingers, peel back the sticker far
   enough to expose the screws.  When peelling TAKE YOUR TIME and DON'T pull at
   too much of an angle!  This will keep wrinkles form forming on the sticker.
   I would suggest peeling from two angles.  First peel far enough from the
   right to expose one set of screws.  Then peel from the left to expose the.
   Leave part of the sticker attached so alignment is a no-brainer when you
   close it up later.

6) The controller back should come off easily at this point.  Don't worry about
   any parts falling out.  They are attached inside.  (unless broken that is.)

7) Once open the controller you will find a pcboard with switch contacts and
   two small potentiommeters.  You will also find the joystick assembly with
   two spring loaded potentiommeters mounted.  The springs center the joystick.
   The potentiommeters on the joystick are the main control.  The small
   potentiommeters on the board are for fine joystick calibration  I think you
   know what the pcboard switches are used for.

9) If you only aim is cleaning then I reccommend using a relay contact cleaning
   spray.  Be sure not to get it in the mechanincs of the joystick, just the
   potentiommeters.  If you do, you may have to apply some plastic grease again.
   This is also a good time to remove dust from all of the nooks.

10) If your potentiommeters spring(s) are broken there are other Vectrex WWWW
    sites and FAQ's on their repair.

11) Closing UP.
    First replace the back on the controller.  make sure the screw holes line
    up.  Then screw all of the screws back in.

12) If you took your time in peeling off the sticker it should go back on with
    its own adhesive.  If not then use a SMALL amount of 3M spray adhesive or
    contact cement where required.

13) Smooth the sticker from the center to the edges.  Use the heat gun again to
    help do this.  The gun will also active the old adhesive again to help it
    adhere.

14) If the orginal edge you lifted with the scredriver is still poking up then
    use a tookpick to smooth it down.  Don't use a metal object as this will
    scratch or tear the sticker.

15) If all steps were carefully followed no one will be able to tell the
    controller was take apart.  In fact it will probably look better because
    the dust is gone.

Hoped this has helped you,

Chris

