Thema:  I fixed my Vec !!! - for all interested
Datum:  31 Dec 1997 02:03:05 GMT

A (long) while ago I posted my busted Vecs symptoms and since then I've
received many emails asking me to post when I found a solution. Briefly:
the problem was the screen initially condensed into one vertical line, and
after opening the unit up a reseating the few chips I could reach without
major disassembly, the screen expanded to a full screen. However, the
screen was very unstable, and would waver very badly. Someone suggested I
replace the video chip, the 6522.

 Well, I FINALLY had a weekend free and my brother and I rolled up our
sleeves and got into the Vec. We actually were able to find an electronics
supplier that could sell us a 6522 chip. (I'll post the source later, if
anyone's interested). Anyway, we open up the darn thing, pry out the old
6522, and replace it, and guess what; same damn problem! So we know two
things, one the 6522 we bought is compatible, and two the 6522 is NOT the
problem.

By this time, we're pretty frustrated, and figure we got nothing to loose.
So, as a last ditch effort we try to reseat all of the chips on the one
main board. What I call the main board is the board with the CPU, the 6522
and the memory. So, we take the Vec apart just enough so we can get at all
the chips. We found the least destructive way is to take out the four (I
think ?) screws that hold the board to rest of the case. There is one thick
wire that connects the two main boards inside the Vec that we HAD to cut.
After the screws are removed and the wire cut, there is just enough slack
in the rest of the connecting wires such that the board can be pulled out
of the Vec and held horizontally(Note, the joystick ports and reset switch
(with the know removed!) pull though the back of the panel). With my bother
holding the back of the board for support, I (carefully!!!) pried all the
chips out of their sockets and reseated them. For a few of the chips, I
needed to use another chip as a lever to insert the tiny screwdriver into
the notch, so I used a piece of cloth to make sure I didn't damage the
other chip. After painstakingly going through all the chips, we reinstalled
the board. My brother, with his impressive soldering skill, soldered in a
plug connection where the hardwiring was, between the two boards, just in
case we need to remove it again.

So, anyway, after reassembling the whole shebang, I'll be damned if the Vec
doesn't work! A nice stable screen, even after we left in on for the rest
of the afternoon.

Hopefully, these directions will help someone whose Vec is suffering from
the same malady. Now if only we can get our hands on a legitimate Vectrex
controller!!! (Ours came sans controller).

The next project is to convert a Sega pad to Vec duty, however, I'd still
like an authentic controller. If anyone can help me here, I'd like to hear
about it! I'll keep looking!

paul123@mail.eclipse.net
