Release 
=======
... for Vectrex.

The game is a port of a game originally developed for iOS and Android by Gimogames.
(http://www.gimogames.com/release/)

The port to Vectrex was done by permission of the original authors. 
Thank you for allowing me to port the game!

Contents of the package
-----------------------
The Vectrex version is provided as a downloadable zip file, which contains following files:

- release.bin 
  Vectrex compatible binary, playable on vectrex or an emulator.
  This binary has all code for "permanency" enabled. To use this binary with a 
  VecFlash or VecMulti (or otherwise using PB6) device hold any button
  pressed during startup to skip the corresponding code) - otherwise
  the device will cause errors and the game won't start.
  
- release_np.bin 
  Vectrex compatible binary, playable on vectrex or an emulator.
  This binary has all code for "permanency" disabled. Even using 
  a VecFever device - this version does not save options or highscores.

- Release.txt
  This readme

- VRelease  (directory)
  The sourcecode to the game. For further information look at the readme inside that
  folder.

Getting started
------------
a) Insert the cartridge and start power up your vectrex
or
b) put the binary (corresponding to your "flash" card) onto the card. Insert the card and 
   power up your vectrex.

Visually important!
********************
To get the best visual experience - tune the brightness so, that the starfield animation 
is clearly visible!

Permanency
----------
The game was developed to allow highscores and options to be saved to attached "devices".
Supported devices are:
- One wire eprom DS2431A
  A cartridge with such a device connected to the PB6 pin of the cartridge port can be used
  to store highscores and options.
  The device will be automatically recognized.
- VecFever
  If the game is run from a VecFever cartridge, options and highscores can be saved to that device.
  The device is automatically recognized.

The auto detection code needs to access the PB6 pin of the cartridge port. Since some available
multicard implementations also use PB6 to communicate, this feature may cause trouble if Release is 
run form such devices (namely VecFlash and VecMulti - but maybe others).

There are ways to circumvent these problems:
a) use the binary "release_np.bin" - this has all PV6 communication disabled
b) while the game is started press any button until "Release" is displayed (the circling title).
   If the cartridge is started with a button pressed, all PB6 access is circumvented.
c) in case of the VecMulti you can also "double" the "release.bin" ROM - so that it is
   64kB instead of 32kB. The VecMulti actually supports bankswitching and on access of PB6 it
   switches the 32kB bank to an "empty" bank. To accomodate that - double the ROM.

Copyright
---------
The game Release for Vectrex is released as public domain - this is done with permission of the
original game designers from Gimogames.

The source code is also public domain - in so far that I am able to (see accompanying Readme).

You are explicitly allowed to look at the code and reuse it or even learn from it.
You are explicitly allowed to make copies of the game and spread it. You can put it into multicard 
collections or even distribute it as a package on its own.

Please do not abuse this generous gesture.

Gameplay
--------  
The game doesn't bother about a made up story of you defending some planet or whatever,
it is a game without story.

The player can do only two things:
- press a button 
- release a button

These are the only controls you have in the entire game. The rest is "timing" the above "action".

The player "base" is in the middle of the screen represented by a polygon.

When you press the button the polygon grows (a shield) and also its (the shields) covered area. 
When you release the button the shield vanishes and everything that was covered 
by its area explodes.

All the while different enemies approach from all sides closing in to the center. 
Once they touch you (the small centered polygon) the game is over. 
In the beginning very few enemies appear, but the game soon gets quite stressful.

There are a couple of different enemy types:
- Terrible X (visualized by a "+" sign)
  The "basic" enemy that closes in on you - rather slowly
- Hidden X (visualized by a "+" (fading) sign)
  The X variant with a cloaking device, the closer this enemy is to the center,
  the more clearly it is visible
- Hunter (visualized by a triangle)
  This one tracks you down and closes in on you quite fast.
- Bomber (visualized by an octagon)
  This one never comes near you, but the longer it stays alive, the faster it 
  fires its deadly shots at you
- Dragon (visualized by a diamond shape)
  The dragon spirals down on you, two shots are needed to destroy this foe.
  Beware the accompanying small ships, once the mother vessel is destroyed they
  will immediately rush in to destroy you.

There are also some friendly objects (which nonetheless can be destroyed):
- stars (visualized by a star)
  These may spawn near to your base. Every 1-2 seconds they spawn bonus points. The longer a star
  survives the higher the bonus points it spawns.
- mystery (visualized by a "?")
  If the mystery reaches your base - your are awarded a special upgrade (for a short period of time).
  The upgrade may be one of:
  - faster shield
  - wider shield
  - protection from death (base my be hit by one (ONE!) enemy - without destroying the base)
  If the mystery is destroyed before touching the base, you are nonetheless awarded a  
  bonus score (variable).

Tips
----  
The clue to get high scores are the little stars. 
At maximum three can be there at any time, they circle the player and are as easily destroyed 
by your shield as any other object.
Each second they provide you with bonus score, the longer they live the more bonus score you get. 
It starts with only 4 points per second, but if you play well can get up into the hundreds (up to 999).

Highscore
---------
Using above mentioned devices the highscore can be saved permanently.
Whenever your last score is within the 5 highest scores - you will be enabled
to enter your initials and the scores will be saved.
To look at the highscore table - press button "2" while in the title screen.

Options
-------
Pressing button "3" while in the title screen opens the options menu.
Here you can do (at least) three things:
- reset
  resets all options and the highscore (also on any used device)
- sfx on/off/half
  Whether you want sound effects enabled or disabled or the volume reduced.
- music
  Switch the music on or off.
  
VecFever
--------
If you use a VecFever to play release, you can use button 4 while in the title screen 
to go back to the VecFever menu.

Some "Finer points" :-)
-----------------------
Difficulty
..........
Internally the difficulty is set using two different schemes.
- automatically gets more difficult (spawn rate increases per time)
- "phases" are set after a certain spawn count

There are 33 "different" phases, which get increasingly more difficult. 
Phases can also define behaviors. 
Behaviors include:
- speed/width of shield
- spawn rate, and spawn rate increase speed/width
- speed of enemies
- forbid/allow certain enemy types (squads...)

Each phase increase is indicated by a certain "jingle" sound.

After phase 33 only the automatic difficulty increase is happening.
But:
a) I think even I never reached phase 33
b) The automatic increase is for the last phase configured quite slow, 
   but finally can get so "fast", that I think it is at some stage impossible.
   
Scoring
.......
Only one rule to get high scores: DO NOT DIE!

Apart from that, different "strategies" can be followed:

a) Bonus Stars
Try to keep the stars alive - if all three is to difficult, concentrate on keeping one alive.
Every 1-2 seconds a star rewards point. It starts with 4 points, but can go up to 999 points. 
The highest I ever had was: 3 stars at around 300-400 
- once you can hold the stars a while at that score - you get really high scores.

When you chose this strategy use every bonus "?" you get to make live easier. 

b) + c)
Please figure them out yourself.

Emulation
---------
The game Release uses some features that are not emulated by all emulators.
The best (although slowest) emulation known can be viewed using Vide.

The graphics using e.g. ParaJVE look broken. The game functions normally though.

Thanks
------
Gimogames
Thanks go again to the guys from Gimogames - for making the original game in
the first place - which I enjoyed very much and secondly for allowing me to port
the game to Vectrex.

VTK
For his support and enthusiam throughout the development phase of the game and
also his very much appreciated music scores, without Vectrex Release would not
be the same. Thank you!
Also - sometime this is underappreciated - your testing really helped to shape the
outcome of Release.

Thomas Sontowski
For his tips and his wonderfull VecFever device. It is a pleasure to use it as a development
tool!

George  Anastasiadis
Also your enthusiasm, testing and spreading word over to you greek colleagues.

Me - Malban :-)
For building Vide - it is a fantastic development tool for vectrex. 
It's a little bit hard to get into - but at least I didn't have any difficulties at all.
The support for VecFever and the possible trial/error rapid prototyping/development 
opportunities - I do not want to miss. 
Also Vecci (which is even harder to get into) allows very efficient vector drawings and 
placing them into the code.
[I do not even mention the YM, SFX and the new Arkos Tracker/player stuff]

More Info
---------
There was a blog describing the development of Release:
release.malban.de

There is a blog concering all things "Vide":
vide.malban.de

If you would like to have more information about "vectrex" in general - and its homebrew "scene"
go the the "Vide" homepage and look under the section "links".




