BATMAN VS SUPERMAN - LASERWARS
Basically a Bomberman clone.

I am very arbitrary about this game.
The game idea, the presentation and the details of implementation are great.
For me (the games I have looked at until now) this is the best of the lot.

If this game was implemented with a little bit more technical finesse it would
be a great game indeed.

Not only is bomberman a great game, particular a two player game - this implementation
actually sports:

POSITIVE
a) 1 player against a computer (vectrex that is)
b) 2 player against each other (using two controllers)
c) collectible extras (after bombing a star) like
- "place more bombs"
- "move faster"
- "extended laser range"
d) different types of labyrinths (star setup)
e) game variant lets you play with all bonus set to max - THAT is fun, the speed
    is great, there are no stars to cause flickering etc...
f) good scoring concept, scores visible!
g) you can "kick" the bombs away!
h) game over screen - with a nice vectorlist of the winner!

But also:
NEGATIVE
- sometimes there is a graphical bug, that corrupts the vectorlists (player one and title screen)
- The actual screen refresh rate makes my eyes hurt
- the "beginning" speed of your players is for my taste to slow
- you NEED an overlay, otherwise you get "stuck" since you can't see the labyrinth
- since all vectrex are different there should be a callibration for that overlay

Strange:
If you stand on your own bomb (exactly) it does not harm you - is that intentionally?

Funny:
The instruction says for the joystick: "Move you ship around"

Technically:
- screen refresh can go lower than 20Hz - ouch
- there is a bug, that can corrupt the vectorlist - not game breaking, but irritating
  This actualle seems to be a bug, that ROM area is written to by the game - on a real cartridge this does not matter.
  (although bad style)
- basic sound
- I don't like the bugs (see above)

General vectrex game: 6.5/10 (give me a bug free, better refreshing version and I would rate that game 8 or 9!)
For a first vectrex game: 9.5/10

