Berzerk 
-------
   Maneuver your humanoid through the electrified mazes of robot filled
rooms.  You may kill the first group of robots but initial success does not
mean survival... future groups begin firing at you!  Added danger lurks when
Evil Otto enters.  He can jump the maze walls and squash you if you linger
too long!

Controls
--------
Joystick:  Moves your humanoid forward through the maze (8 directions).
Button 1:  Unused.
Button 2:  Unused.
Button 3:  Unused.
Button 4:  Fire.  Shoots bullets at Robots while moving forward.

Characters
----------
   There are 3 types of characters who will appear in the mazes:

     The Humanoid (you).
     The Robots.
     Evil Otto (Smiley-face).

Game Play
---------
   As your humanoid enters the electrified maze, he will blink on and off. 
Use the joystick to run through the maze in any of 8 directions.  As you run,
you will be attempting to destroy the Robots who inhabit the maze.  As you
run, press button 4 to shoot bullets in the direction you are moving.  Be
careful not to walk into the walls or into a robot -- they are electrified
and can destroy you.  You can escape the maze at any time by running through
any of the indicated exits.  Every time you exit a maze, you will
automatically be transported to another maze filled with Robots.

Number of Robots
----------------
   There may be from 1 to 11 Robots in each maze.

Evil Otto
---------
   In addition to the Robots, Evil Otto will appear later and will try to
destroy you by crushing you.  He can jump over walls and cannot be destroyed
by your bullets, so your only hope is to run to the next maze.

Getting Hit
-----------
   If you are hit by a Robot ar Evil Otto, you will lose a man and be
automatically transported to another maze.

Types of Robots
---------------
   At first, it will be easy to shoot the Robots because they do not fire
bullets at you.  However, as your score gets higher, the Robots get meaner. 
They will shoot more bullets and move more quickly.

Number of Humanoids
-------------------
   At the beginning of the game, you will have 3 Humanoids.  A bonus Humanoid
is awarded for each 5000 points scored.

Scoring
-------
   Each Robot you destroy is worth 50 points.  If the whole maze is cleared,
you receive a bonus of 10 points for each Robot that was in the maze.


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu


