Blitz! 
------
   Will you have a championship season or just be an also-ran?  You're in
control as head coach of this championship caliber squad.  Run, pass, punt,
kick field goals -- all the excitement of a real game.  Play against the
computer's tough defense or invite a visiting coach to join in a real
showdown!

Controls
--------
   For two-player game play, a second control panel is needed.

Joystick:  On offense, moves the ball carrier around the field.  On defense,
           controls one of your men.
Button 1:  Strong left or Field Goal Select.  Moves your man into a strong
           left formation.  Also used to select field goal formation.
Button 2:  Power Middle or Punt Select.  Moves your man into a power middle
           formation.  Also used to select punt formation.
Button 3:  Spread or Pass or Kick.  Moves your men into a spread formation.
           Also used to release a pass or kick.
Button 4:  Strong Right or Snap.  Moves your men into a strong right
           formation.  Also used to snap the ball.

Game Selection
--------------
   You have the choice of 3 game options.  Each game operates the same way,
but they vary in speed and difficulty.  Game 1 is the slowest and easiest
while Game 3 is the fastest and most difficult.

Starting Game Play
------------------
   Once you select the number of players, and the game number, press button 4
for kick-off formation.  In a one player game, you control the "X" team and
the computer controls the "O" team.  In a two player game, the left control
panel controls the "O" team.

Game Play
---------
   As the crowd cheer, both sides take the field and prepare for the kick-off
of a 5 minute game.  The object of the is the same as the pros -- try to get
10 yards in 4 downs on your way to a touchdown.  The down number and yards to
go are shown at the bottom of the screen and the first down marker is shown
on the left side of the field.
   In a one-player game, the kick-off will happen automatically.  In a two-
player game, the "O" player (the one using the left control panel) will press
button 3 to kick-off.  Once the ball lands, the offensive player will have to
recover the ball and run back downfield.  Once tackled, the field will rotate
180 degrees because the offense will ALWAYS move from the bottom of the
screen to the top.
   At the start of each down, the offensive player selects his team's
formation with one of the four buttons.  If two people are playing, the
defensive player then chooses a formation.  In a one player game, the
computer will select a defensive formation.  As the offensive player, you
control the brightly lit character on the field.  You can move him anywhere
behind the line of scrimmage prior to the snap of the ball.  Once you snap
the ball, by pressing button 4, you control the player with the ball.  The
ball will always be snapped to the player immediately behind the ball.  As a
defensive player, you always control the brightly lit defensive character.
   Just like the real game, you better watch the clock, too.  You only have
30 seconds to snap the ball once the formations are set.  Otherwise, a delay
of game penalty will be called.  Once the ball is snapped you have the
options of running, passing, punting, or attempting a field goal.  You're the
coach, so anticipate the action as you lead your team down the field.

Positions
---------
   There are 5 basic positions you can line your men up in:
      [NOTE: the "O" is the football.]

         Strong Left                          Power Middle
         (Button 1)                            (Button 2)
              O                                    O
                                               X X   X X
         X X     X                                 X
              X                                    X
       X      X             Spread
                           (Button 3)
                               O
                             X   X
                               X
                               X
                          X         X
        Strong Right                         Punting of Field Goal
         (Button 4)                         (See "Kicking" section)
           O                                           O
                                                   X       X
        X     X X                                X            X
           X                                               X
           X      X                                    X

Running
-------
   You can run on any down.  Push the joystick to move your player in any
direction.

Passing
-------
   You also have the options to pass on any down.  To pass the ball, first
snap to your quarterback.  Be careful to stay behind the line of scrimmage! 
Wait for one of your men to get clear, aim the joystick toward him, and then
press button 3 to release the pass.  You can continue to control the ball
slightly by using the joystick until the pass is caught or falls to the
ground.  Make sure an opponent isn't in range of your pass because you might
get intercepted!  If the pass is complete, you control the receiver and can
continue to run downfield.

Kicking
-------
   You also have the option of punting and kicking field goals.  To attempt a
punt, first set your men up in any formation.  Once your opponent sets up his
men, press button 2 to change your men to punt formation.  Press button 4 to
snap the ball to your punter.  Just like passing, point your joystick in the
desired direction of your kick and press button 3.
   To kick a field goal, first select any formation.  Once your opponent sets
up his men, press button 3 to change your men to field goal formation.  The
goal posts will appear.  Snap the ball, line up with the goal posts, aim the
direction of your kick with the joystick and press button 3 to actually kick. 
To punt of kick, you must be behind the line of scrimmage.  From either punt
or field goal formation you have the option of running with the ball once the
ball is snapped.  However, you do not have the option of passing from either
formation.

Getting Tackled
---------------
   Once you are tackled by an opponent or run out of bounds, the official
will blow a whistle and the play will be over.  Both teams come out again
ready for the next play.

Penalties
---------
   There are two penalties in Blitz!:

DELAY OF GAME:  If you take more that 30 seconds to snap the ball after the
     formations are set, this penalty will be called.  You will lose five
     yards.  The clock will not start again until the ball is snapped.
OFFSIDES:  If you are across the line of scrimmage when the ball is snapped,
     this penalty will be called.  You will lose five yards.  The clock will
     start again as soon as your new formation is in place.

   Don't forget, Blitz! is just like real football.  Therefore, the ball will
be turned over to your opponent if you do not make a first down in 4 tries.

One Player Game
---------------
   When playing against the computer, you are always the offensive team. 
When the computer takes possession of the ball he will either punt or attempt
a field goal.  However, remember to set up a defensive formation before he
can attempt to kick or punt.

Self Play Mode
--------------
   If you do not choose a formation within 2 minutes, the game will go into a
self play mode.  Formations and snaps will happen automatically.  You will
still have control over the movements of the players, but the computer will
continue to choose formations and snap the ball until the game is over.  You
can end the self play mode only by pressing the Reset Button on the console.

Scoring
-------
   There are three ways to score:

     Action          How Occurs                           Points
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Touchdown       Carry or pass the ball into            7
                     opponent's end zone.
     Field Goal      Kick ball through                      3
                     opponent's goal posts.
     Safety          Tackle opponent in his                 2
                     own end zone.

   After each score the ball must be kicked-off to continue the game.  In a
one player game, the kick-off will happen automatically.  In a two player
game, the scoring team should press button 3 to kick-off.

Statistics
----------
   At the end of the game, a statistic page will appear, recapping the game. 
It will show the following statistic for both the Home Team (player 1) and
the Visiting Team (player 2 or computer):

                           Score
                           1st Downs
                           Yds Rushing
                           Yds Passing

   Additionally, the longest single run and longest single pass of the game
will be listed.


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu

