Clean Sweep 
-----------
   Evil bank robbers have just blown your bank to smithereens.  As bank
president, you only have a vacuum available to recover the money strewn among
the rubble, before the thieves destroy you!  The thieves get increasingly
anxious, but for added challenge, turn off the lights of the bank's corridors
and gather the money through a blind maze.

Controls
--------
Joystick: Moves your vacuum throughout the bank.
          (Only control used in game play)

Game Selection
--------------
   You have the choice of two game play options.  They are:
GAME 1:  The bank's corridors are shown, creating a maze.  You will have a
         clear picture of the passageways.
GAME 2:  The bank's corridors are not shown, creating a blind maze.  In
         effect, you are fighting the robbers without any lights on in the
         bank.

Game Play
---------
   Evil bank robbers have just tried to burglarize your bank.  The dynamite
they planted caused an explosion, leaving the bank in a terrible mess.  The
corridors create a maze, with money strewn everywhere.  Use the joystick to
maneuver your vacuum throughout the bank and sweep up the money.  The
joystick can move your vacuum up, down, right or left.
   Your vacuum bag is limited in what it can hold.  You will start to see it
grow larger.  Eventually, it will not hold any more money, and you will have
to re-deposit the money by entering the vault in the center if the screen. 
Your vacuum does not have to be full to enter the vault and re-deposit the
money.
   Picking up the money with your vacuum is not easy because the bank robbers
return, one by one, to try and destroy you.  You must avoid them or get
"supercharged" and try to destroy them.

Supercharging
-------------
   Your vacuum can become temporarily supercharged by entering one of the
four special rooms in the corners of the bank.  As long as you are
supercharged, you will have the power to destroy the robbers.  When you begin
to blink, beware... your supercharged powers are about to end.  Once you use
a special room, the door closes and you cannot use it again until you have
swept up all the money in that level of the bank and enter the next level.

Getting Destroyed
-----------------
   Once you are destroyed by a robber, you will disappear.  If you have any
additional vacuums left, you will return in the center and be given another
chance to complete the level you were in.

The Maze
--------
   The maze is a series of hallways, with the vault in the center.  You are
always safe from the robbers when you are in the vault.
   There are four doorways, one on each side.  The robbers will enter from
them.  You can leave the maze through any of the doorways and return through
the doorway on the opposite side.

Levels
------
   Each time you collect all the money in a maze, you will be transported to
the next level that has a new, tougher maze.  Your vacuum will fill up faster
and the robbers will enter sooner and will move more quickly.

Number of Vacuums
-----------------
   At the beginning of each game, you will have 5 vacuums.  A bonus vacuum is
awarded after earning 10,000 points.

Scoring
-------
   Points are earned as follows:
            Action                          Points
   ----------------------------------------------------------------
   Each dollar collected                      10
   Each dollar re-deposited in vault          20
   Supercharging in corner                    50
   While supercharged:
      Eating 1 robber                        100
      Eating 2 robbers                      +200
      Eating 3 robbers                      +400
      Eating 4 robbers                      +800


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu

