Cosmic Chasm 
------------
Can you save the galaxy by blowing up the alien-inhabited planet... and get off
the planet before you explode?  You must burrow deep inside, finding your way
through the underground maze while battling the Planet Protectors.  If you can
get to the center, plant your one bomb and try to find your way out.  It's only
a matter of seconds before the planet goes BOOM!

Controls
--------
Joystick:  Rotates your ship.  Pulling back releases bomb in center chamber.
Button 1:  Drill.
Button 2:  Shield.
Button 3:  Thrust.
Button 4:  Fire.

Game Play
---------
   Your mission is to penetrate an alien planet, travel through its underground
maze and place a bomb by the planet's power structure in the center cavern. 
First, you will be shown a map of the planet, including its caverns and
passageways.  The blinking light indicates the cavern where you will enter the
planet.  You must determine the quickest path to the center.
   Once in the first cavern, use your joystick to maneuver your ship and button
3 to thrust forward.  The Planet Protectors will attempt to hit you, but you can
destroy them first by firing dual lasers with button 4.
   To get to the next cavern, press button 1, the drill, and inch up SLOWLY to
the force field you wish to penetrate.  If you thrust too quickly while
drilling, you will destroy yourself.
   Continue doing battle and traveling through the planet until you reach the
center cavern.  Once there, plant your bomb and find the quickest way out of the
planet.  You will then move on to the next, more difficult, mission.

Planet Protectors
-----------------
   Each cavern has eight Planet Protectors.  They will try and destroy you by
colliding with you.  As you approach the center chamber, they will get faster. 
They will also get faster on each new mission.
   The Planet Protectors are also aware of the danger you present.  Therefore,
they have booby-trapped the center of each cavern -- it grows larger and larger
in an attempt to squeeze you.  Don't dawdle in any cavern, you may get crushed.
   You don't have to kill all the Planet Protectors before you move to the next
cavern.  However, you will then have to battle them if you exit the planet
through that cavern.

Shield
------
   By pressing button 2 you can surround your ship with a protective shield. 
This shield will cause the Planet Protectors to bounce off and will prevent you
from colliding with the wall.  However, you cannot drill or fire with the shield
on.
   Unfortunately, too much energy is used by your ship in planting your bomb. 
Therefore, your shield will be ineffective from the time you plant the bomb to
the beginning of your next mission.

Center Chamber
--------------
   The center chamber contains the planet's power structure, which you must
attempt to destroy.  When you get close enough to the power structure plant your
bomb by pulling back on the joystick.  You will then have 15 seconds to exit the
planet safely.

Exiting Safely
--------------
   To escape the planet safely, you can either travel back through the path you
carved or any other you'd prefer.  If you enter a new cavern, you will be faced
with additional Planet Protectors.  Don't forget, you must escape the planet,
not just return to an outside cavern.  Work quickly.  You only have 15 seconds
until the planet explodes.
   You can abort your mission and escape the planet at any time by leaving the
planet through any of the outside caverns.  You will be given a new mission of
the same difficulty level as the old.
    [Not mentioned in manual--->  Aborting a mission WILL cost you one ship.
     If you do this while using your last ship, the game will end.]

Getting Hit
-----------
   If a Planet Protector collides with you or you hit any wall, you will lose
one ship.  If you have additional ships left, you will return to the cavern
where you were destroyed.  The same conditions the existed when you entered the
cavern will be in effect.
   If you do not escape the planet within the 15 seconds allowed, you will
explode along with the planet.  If you have additional ships left, you will
attempt another mission similar to the one you did not complete.

Number of Ships
---------------
   In each game you start with 5 ships.

Scoring
-------
   Points are earned as follows:

          Action                     Points
  -----------------------------------------
  Destroying each Planet
  Protector in Cavern One             80

  Destroying each
  Planet Protector
  in successive caverns               80 + 10 for each new cavern

  Drilling to next cavern             25

  Getting to next cavern
  while escaping planet              100

  Completion of
  successful mission                1000


