3-D Crazy Coaster 
-----------------
   Climb aboard the Crazy Coaster and get ready for a roller coaster ride
more dangerous and exciting than any you've experienced before!  The magic of
Vectrex 3-D makes your ride so real...you'll feel yourself leaning with the
G-force!
   You control the movements of the passenger in the lead car as he
plummets down the spectacularly steep hills and careens around the
gravity-defying curves of the Crazy Coaster.  Will you be able to keep his
arms raised throughout the ride without sending him flying off into space?!

3-D Crazy Coaster Controls
--------------------------
   Joystick:  Push forward to make the coaster go faster, backward to make it
              go slower.  Push to left or right to lean passenger in left or
              right direction.
   Button 1:  Unused.
   Button 2:  DUCK.  Causes passenger to duck his head (and lower arms if
              raised) to avoid low-flying birds and other objects.
   Button 3:  RAISE ARMS.  Causes passenger to raise his arms and earn bonus
              points.
   Button 4:  GRAB.  Causes passenger to grab restrainer bar.

Game Play
---------
   Your goal in 3-D Crazy Coaster is to ride a wild roller coaster as fast
and as far as possible.  There are steep hills, right turns, left turns, and
even low-flying birds!  The faster you go, the more dangerous it will
be...but you'll score more points too.
   When speeding around curves, push the joystick left and right to make
your passenger lean in the correct direction.  If he leans too much, the
coaster will slow down and lose precious time.  If he doesn't lean at all, he
could fly right out of the coaster!  For added danger and excitement, use
Button 3 to raise your passenger's arms and score bonus points!  But be
careful...with arms raised your passenger will be TWICE as likely to fly out
of the coaster.  Use Button 4 to grab the restrainer bar just in time before
the coaster makes a sharp turn or reaches a hilltop.  Whenever birds fly at
you, press Button 2 to duck.  Otherwise, you will be knocked out of the car.
Also duck when ice cream cones and other objects come at you; if they hit
you, you will lose your vision for awhile.

(Note: If your arms are already raised, they will automatically be lowered
 when you duck)

Number of Passengers
--------------------
   In each game you have four passengers.  If a passenger flies out of the
coaster or gets knocked out by the birds, you will lose the time it takes for
another passenger to appear, and the game will continue at the point where
the previous passenger was lost.  The game will end when all four passengers
have been lost.

Scoring
-------
   Your score is based on how FAST your coaster travels as well as the
total DISTANCE it travels with the four passengers.  The faster the average
speed and the further the coaster goes, the higher your score.  Your speed
points will be doubles while your arms are raised.



