 Background                               

Hexed! is a card-based game by FURY and proceeds Vector 21 and Royal 21. Similar to most of George Pelonis' releases, it had a limited production run. Due to slow sales, the production was set at 50 with extremely short notice. With such a small number produced, it has caused high collectability.
Gameplay                               

Hexed! is turn-based. Card info will be displayed when the player hovers their pointer over any of the three displayed cards. While hovering, the player can grab the card and drop it anywhere in the play area. Some cards can be combined by dropping the active card directly on top of a compatible card to make a new more powerful card to play on a subsequent turn. Cards that have the ability to be combined are labeled as combo cards on-screen, however only certain cards can be combined. The dealer cannot combine card and must play the next card in the deck of Voo-Doom.

Life is indicated as an orb. Certain cards will increase the players life orb while others will diminish the dealer's life orb when played. The goal is to deplete the dealer's life orb of all power and win the game before the dealer drains all the player's life orb.

In addition to cards which affect life, there are also cards which cause the player to both be infected or possessed and will gradually drain life until either a cure card is used or all life is drained.
Controls                               

Main Menu

    Begin game-any button
    Begin game without card information-button one 

In-game

    Move cursor around screen-joypad or D-pad
    Select card-button four 

Scoring                               

    Amulet-Steals orb power from opponent
    Stickpens-5 points (combo)
    Pixie Powder-10 points (combo)
    Shrunken Head-5 points from opponent
    Zombie-infect opponent
    Voodoo Doll-10 points (combo)
    Voodoo Sun-cure infection/increase orb power
    Pixie Stick-cure infection
    Pixie Potion-increase orb power (combo)
    Zombie Dog-5 points/infect opponent
    Hoodoo Witch-Steal orb power from opponent
    Voodoo Priestess-10 points/steals orb power from opponent
    Voodoo Queen-15 points/steals orb power from opponent
    Black Hawk-cure infection/increase orb power
    Evil Spirit-possess dealer
    Exorcist-cure possession
    Pixie Jug-10 points/increase orb power
    Vicious Doll-15 points/steals orb power from opponent
    Bonus for every 100 points 