3D Minestorm 
------------
   Tread lightly!  The transport lanes of intergalactic space have been
seeded with mines from an alien vessel.  Use your mine destroying blaster to
blow up the mines before they annihilate you!  You may survive the floating
mines, but beware of the fireball, magnetic, and treacherous fireball-
magnetic mines... 16 fields, each one more difficult, await you!

Controls
--------
Joystick:  Rotates your mine destroying ship.
Button 1:  Escape (hyperspace).
Button 2:  Escape (hyperspace).
Button 3:  Thrust.
Button 4:  Fire.

Game Play
---------
   The enemy minelayer will move through your galaxy and will seed the first
mine field.  The mines will be left in 3 different levels or planes.  Your ship
will come into view after all the mines have been activated and the minelayer
leaves the galaxy.
   Maneuver your ship within the galaxy in an effort to destroy the mines on the
first level.  Beware... when you hit a large mine it breaks apart into two
smaller ones!  And once you destroy the mines on the first level, those on the
second level move up to greet you.  When those are destroyed, the mines that
were on the third level will move up.
   Use the joystick to rotate your ship and button 3 to thrust forward.  Buttons
1 and 2 allow you to mysteriously move to a new location on the screen.  Use it
cautiously... it might put you in a more difficult predicament!  As you travel
through space, use button 4 for fire at the mines.  As you destroy them,
additional mines will become activated.  Be careful... the minelayer may
reappear to try and personally destroy you, but you can blast him as well.
   Once you make that part of the galaxy safe, on all three levels, you
immediately travel to the next mine field.  There are 16 different mine fields,
each one becoming increasingly difficult.

Getting Hit
-----------
   If you are hit by a mine you will lose one ship.  The minelayer will
reseed the field you are currently in and you will have another chance to
clear out the field if you have any ships remaining.

Types of Mines
--------------
   There are 4 kinds of mines which appear at different stages of the game.
 Floating Mines:  [Three-pointed, kind of "M" shaped]  These are "dumb" mines
      which simply drift through space.
 Fireball Mines:  [Four-sided triangle with dot in middle]  These mines hurl a
      fireball at you as soon as you hit them.  You can avoid the fireball or
      destroy it with a rocket.
 Magnetic Mines:  [Four-pointed "wavy" star]  These mines will follow you
      anywhere you go, until you destroy them.
 Magnetic-Fireball Mines:  [Kind of a "bent" Fireball Mine]  These mines have
      the traits of both Magnetic and Fireball Mines.

   Each type of mine will appear in 2 sizes -- large and small.

Field Types
-----------
   Each of the 16 mine fields gets more difficult, but each starts with 12 large
mines across 3 levels.  Each large mine breaks into 2 smaller mines when shot. 
The first field has only floating mines, but each new field has a different
combination of mines.  Will you discover the types of mines in Field 16?
   If you can survive all 16 mine fields you are certainly an ace pilot, but can
you handle what comes next?

Number of Ships
---------------
   In each game you will start with 3 ships.  A bonus ship is awarded if you
clear out 4 fields.

Scoring
-------
   Points are awarded for destroying the mines, as follows:
  Types of Mine             Large           Small
  ------------------------------------------------
  Floating                   100             135
  Fireball                   325             360
  Magnetic                   500             535
  Magnetic-Fireball          750             785

   Additionally, 110 points are earned for hitting the fireball itself and
1000 points for hitting the minelayer.


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu

