3-D NARROW ESCAPE 
-----------------
   Enter the stellar fortress of a 23rd century warlord whose evil intent
is to dominate your home star system and enslave all its inhabitants.
   Your mission is to navigate through the narrow and fast-moving passages
of the fortress and destroy the warlord's defense forces and his powerful
arsenal.  Beware...the passages of the fortress will encircle you in 3-D
terror while the warlord's defense systems will become more menacing.  Will
you succumb to the evil of the warlord or destroy him and make a Narrow
Escape?!

3-D Narrow Escape Controls
--------------------------
   Joystick:  Push forward to move your ship down, backward to move it up.
              Push left and right to move ship sideways.
   Button 1:  Unused.
   Button 2:  Unused.
   Button 3:  Unused.
   Button 4:  Fire.

Game Play
---------
   Your goal in 3-D Narrow Escape is to successfully navigate your ship
through the narrow, fast-moving passages of the warlord's fortress, destroy
his defense forces and powerful arsenal, and avoid space debris.  You'll also
have to maneuver your ship through small holes in a series of walls where
you'll pick up precious fuel cells that allow you to continue on your
mission.  If you pilot your ship successfully, you'll be faced with the
warlord's own escape ship which you must hit several times to destroy it and
liberate the star system for the warlord's tyranny.
   Each level gets more difficult as everything will move faster, your fuel
will be consumed more quickly, the holes in the walls will get smaller, and
you'll face more menacing defense forces.

Levels
------
   The game progresses through increasingly difficult levels of play.  Each
level of game play consists of two phases:

  Passages : During the first phase of each level, you must maneuver your
             ship through the narrow, moving passages with the joystick while
             shooting six of the warlord's defense forces with Button 4.  If
             you miss any of the six, they will go off the screen and be
             re-cycled to give you another chance, but you'll use more fuel.

             In addition to various defense forces, which you MUST destroy,
             there are extra targets that you can try to shoot for additional
             points.  Unlike the regular defense forces, the extra targets
             are non-threatening - they will not shoot at you or crash into
             you.

             During this phase, you must also deal with space debris, which
             will suddenly shoot up through the play field.  You cannot shoot
             space debris but can only try to avoid it by dodging from side
             to side.  If space debris crashes into your ship, it will
             destroy you.

             As you navigate your ship through the narrow passages, be
             careful not to crash into the walls or you will destroy your
             ship.  You can maneuver your ship into a gap between moving
             walls, but only for a brief moment or you will crash into the
             approaching wall.  This 'side-stepping' into gaps is helpful
             when trying to avoid an approaching enemy or space debris.


  Walls    : If you successfully navigate the passages and destroy the
             required six defense forces, you will enter the second phase - a
             series of walls with holes.  In the first level of the game,
             there will be five successive walls, each one with a hole
             through which you must maneuver your ship.  In the second level
             of play, there will be six successive, in the third level, seven
             walls, etc.  Also, the size of the holes will get smaller in
             each new level.  The hole will be in a different location on
             each wall.

             After passing through the hole in each wall (but before entering
             the hole in the next wall) there will be a fuel cell which you
             must pass through in order to capture it.  If you miss a fuel
             cell, you can still continue playing by entering the hole in the
             next wall.  But keep an eye on your fuel gauge and try to
             capture fuel cells if your fuel is running low.  (Note: In early
             levels of the game, you will not need to capture all of the fuel
             cells to get to the next level.  However, as the game
             progresses, your fuel will be consumed faster, so you WILL need
             to capture all of the fuel cells in order to make it through the
             next level).


Warlords Escape Ship
--------------------
   After successfully completing three levels of play, you will come
face-to-face with the warlord's escape ship in open space.  You must shoot
the warlords ship FIVE times to destroy it during the first encounter, seven
times during the second encounter, etc.  But be careful...the warlords ship
will also shoot at you and try to avoid your shots!  You can also intercept
the warlords torpedoes with your own shots.  If you destroy the warlords
escape ship, you will enter the next (fourth) level of play and the game will
continue.  You will face the warlords escape ship after successfully
completing every three levels of game play, but each time you face it, you
will have to hit the escape ship more frequently to destroy it.

Number of Ships
---------------
   In each game, you start with four ships, three reserve ships plus your
ship.

Scoring
-------

Points are awarded as follows:

Destroying Each Enemy Ship
in The Defense Force              50 x Level Number

Capturing Fuel Cells              100 points
 
Hitting Warlord's Escape Ship     50 points

Destroying Warlord's Escape Ship  500 points


