Fortress of Narzod 
------------------
   A long time ago, before our history began, wizards -- both good and evil --
battled for supremacy of the earth.  It was a time of magic and adventure when
all men possessed special powers.
   The most evil wizard, Narzod, gained the power to enslave all mankind.  You
are the only remaining honorable wizard with the knowledge to harness all the
forces of good to defeat Narzod and destroy his sinister fortress.  But Narzod
has prepared for your approach and guards his realm with deadly creatures of
darkness, including the Mystic Hurler.  Beware, and approach the Fortress of
Narzod with great caution!

Controls
--------
Joystick: Moves your hovercraft.
Button 1: Select number of players.
Button 2: Select skill level (1 is easiest).
Button 3: Unused.
Button 4: Fire.

Game Play
---------
   Your goal in the Fortress of Narzod is to successfully travel a series of
three roadways leading to the Fortress then destroy the powerful Mystic Hurler
who acts as guardian to Narzod himself.  Once the Mystic Hurler is destroyed,
the Fortress of Narzod and all the evil it contains will disintegrate before
your eyes.

Lower Roadway
-------------
   As the game begins, you find your hovercraft at the base of the Lower
Roadway.  You have been sighted by Narzod and he immediately releases his lead
guardians -- the DoomGrabbers.  Like all other guardians of the fortress, they
will randomly release deadly Spikers which will destroy your hovercraft on
contact.  (Contact with any of the guardians will also destroy you.)  Use your
joystick to move your hovercraft and push button 4 to activate the blaster in
an attempt to destroy DoomGrabbers and their Spikers.  After destroying all
DoomGrabbers, you must face the Tarantulas, then the Ghouls.
   You may fire continuously by holding down button 4, but be careful, your
bullets can ricochet off the roadway walls directly back into your hovercraft.

Middle Roadway
--------------
   On the Middle Roadway, you will face the same types of guardians, however
Narzod will send them in greater numbers.  You will also face two more
challenges -- the Spikers thrown by the guardians will split in half when hit
by your blaster to double the danger, and Warbirds will accompany each wave of
DoomGrabbers, Tarantulas and Ghouls.
   The Warbirds on the Middle Roadway can only harm you if they are allowed to
make contact with your hovercraft.  You can also use them to your advantage,
blasting them while they are directly over the roadway.  When blasted, they
will act as shields from the guardians' Spikers.  However, they will only
shield you for a short amount of time and will eventually disappear.

Upper Roadway
-------------
   You will again face the same types of guardians as you have on the previous
roadways, only in even greater numbers.  As on the Middle Roadway, the
guardians' Spikers will split in half when blasted and you will also face the
Warbirds.  However, the Warbirds on the Upper Roadway will fire upon you with
bullets if they come within range of your hovercraft.

The Fortress
------------
   If you are able to destroy all three waves of guardians on the Upper
Roadway, you will be allowed to pass through the final guard tower into the
Fortress of Narzod itself.  Upon entering, you will find yourself face-to-face
with the Mystic Hurler -- a creature so evil, even Narzod himself trembles in
fear.  The Mystic Hurler will aim an unlimited number of Spikers directly at
your hovercraft and on either side of you to ensure that you will not progress
any further.  The Spikers will split in half when hit by your blaster.
   In order to destroy the Mystic Hurler, you must hit it with your blaster SIX
times.

Hovercraft
----------
   You are provided with six hovercrafts per game and unlimited ammunition.
One extra hovercraft is earned for destroying the Mystic Hurler.  Up to nine
extra hovercrafts will be displayed by a numeral.  Any earned hovercrafts over
nine will be represented by [an infinity sign].

Direct Hits
-----------
   Your hovercraft will be destroyed whenever any of the following occurs:
    - Contact with one of the guardians or their Spikers.
    - Contact with one of the Warbirds or their bullets.
    - Contact with bullets from your own blaster that have ricocheted off the
      Roadway's walls.
   When you are hit, you will return to the same roadway level to face those
guardians you have not yet destroyed.

The Guardians
-------------
   All of the guardians to the Fortress of Narzod are under the spell of the
evil wizard.  Their only goal is to destroy an unwanted visitor to the
fortress.  They will move back-and-forth randomly across the roadway as they
approach your hovercraft.
   Each guardian can hurl one Spiker.  Their Spikers may be thrown at any time
and at any downward angle.  When you reach the Middle and Upper Roadways, the
guardians' Spikers will split in two -- doubling the danger.
   The guardians become easier to destroy as they come closer to your
hovercraft.  The farther they are up the roadway, the greater number of shots
from your blaster it will take to eliminate them.

Warbirds
--------
   The Warbirds are used as a secret and unpredictable weapon by the evil
Narzod.  On the Middle Roadway, they can only cause you harm if they come into
direct contact with your hovercraft.  On the Upper Roadway and beyond, Narzod
arms the Warbirds with powerful bullets that will fire directly at your
hovercraft if they are not destroyed or avoided.  Remember, you can us all
Warbirds to your advantage as shields from the guardians' Spikers.

Mystic Hurler
-------------
   After you have passed through the third guard tower, you will be
face-to-face with the Mystic Hurler.  It is supplied with an unlimited number
of Spikers which will be thrown directly at your hovercraft and to either side
and will split in two when hit by your blaster.

Scoring
-------
Points are awarded for blasting guardians on the roadways as follows:
   Guardian Type                        Points
------------------------------------------------------------
DoomGrabbers                              10
Tarantulas                                10
Ghouls                                    10
Warbirds                                 100
Mystic Hurler                             10 (And a bonus hovercraft)
Standard Spiker                           50
Split Spiker                             100


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu

