Polar Rescue 
------------
   Journey to the icy waters beneath the North Pole.  As commander of a
powerful and highly maneuverable submarine, you must rescue the survivors of
an ill-fated expedition.
   Seek out the survivors on your sonar screen and pilot your sub to their
rescue!  To complete your mission, you must avoid deadly mine fields, enemy
submarines and the terror of the maelstrom!  Monitor your oxygen supply
carefully and hurry!  Lives are at stake!

Controls
--------
Joystick:  Push forward to dive, backward to surface, left to rotate your
           sub left and right to rotate your sub right.
Button 1:  Pause.  Press to resume game play again.
Button 2:  Reverse thrust.
Button 3:  Forward thrust.  (Note: pressing buttons 2 and 3 at the same
           time will maintain your sub's current speed.)
Button 4:  Torpedo fire.

Skill Level Selection
---------------------
   You can being Polar Rescue at any of four different skill levels.  Level 1
is the least difficult; Level 4 is the most difficult.

Game Play
---------
   Your goal in Polar Rescue is to successfully maneuver your submarine in
the icy waters beneath the North Pole and rescue the survivors of an ill-
fated mission.  You'll battle enemy subs, blow up and avoid mine fields and
ice chunks, even experience the powerful maelstroms -- turbulent underwater
whirlpools that throw you off course.  There's no escape from a maelstrom...
you get out only when it throws you out of its powerful center!  As you
become more proficient and advance to higher skill levels, your sub will have
to travel further to get to the survivors and you may encounter more and more
enemy subs!

Instrument Panel
----------------
   [My words- the manual has a little drawing...]

Sonar Display- The center of the instrument panel.

Oxygen Indicator- Gauge on left side of Sonar.  Needle to the right is full,
       and it travels to the left as you use up oxygen.

Torpedoes Remaining- The number directly above the Oxygen Indicator.  Starts
       at 10.

Speed Indicator- Gauge on the right side of the Sonar.  Needle on the center
       line indicates no movement.  Needle to the right of the center line
       indicates forward speed, to the left of the center line indicates
       reverse speed.

Damage Points- The number directly above the Speed Indicator.  Starts at 00.

Ships Remaining- Located beneath the Speed Indicator.

Sonar Display
-------------
   The sonar display at the bottom center of the screen is used to locate the
survivors, maneuver around obstacles and detect enemy subs.  Your sonar range
is about TWICE as far as you can see out of your viewing window.  Your
viewing window is represented by the "V" portion of the sonar screen.
   All obstacles within your sonar range are represented by blips of light
that reach full brightness when passed by the rotating scanning arm of sonar,
and then reduce in brightness.  There is one exception to this rule: a blip
representing an enemy sub always remains at FULL brightness.  This is how
you'll be able to tell the difference between an enemy sub and another
object.
   The survivors' pod is represented by an arrow rather than a blip of light. 
The brightness of this arrow will pulsate and you will hear a series of
beeping sounds that will get faster as you get closer to the survivor's pod. 
To head toward the survivors, use the joystick and buttons 2 and 3 to
maneuver your sub so that the arrow appears at the top center area of the
sonar screen.

Oxygen Supply
-------------
   At the beginning of the game, you are provided with a full tank of oxygen. 
During the game, you constantly use oxygen.  The faster you travel, the more
oxygen you use... so keep a sharp eye on your oxygen supply on the instrument
panel.  Oxygen may be replenished when you destroy enemy subs (see Enemy
Subs).  If you run out of oxygen, you will lose a sub.

Speed and Direction
-------------------
   You can control the speed and direction of your submarine's movement with
buttons 2 and 3.  Press and hold button 3 to increase speed in a forward
direction.  Press and hold button 2 to increase your speed in a reverse
direction.  If you release buttons 2 and 3, your sub will soon come to a
standstill.  By pressing buttons 2 and 3 at the same time, you can maintain
your current speed.  Your speed and direction are shown on the instrument
panel -- the center line indicates no movement, forward speeds are to the
right and reverse speeds are to the left.
   Use your joystick to maneuver your sub -- push it forward to dive deeper
into the water, push backward to surface, push to the right or left to change
the direction of your heading.

Obstacles
---------
MINES- [Four pointed star shapes floating on the end of a cable (line).]
       Mines are stationary... but very sensitive as you draw close.  If you
       pass mines too quickly, they will explode and destroy you instantly!
       You can shoot and destroy a mine with your torpedoes, but if you are
       too close to it when you shoot, you'll get damage points. (See Damage
       Points).

ICE CHUNKS- [Seven-sided abstract shape.]  If you collide with an ice chunk,
       damage points are collected (see Damage Points).  The number of points
       against you is determined by the speed of the collision.  If you
       "bounce" off an ice chunk, your direction of travel is reversed. 
       Watch out for ice chunks directly overhead... if your sub sits under
       one, it will continuously "bonk" on top of your vessel, causing
       continuously increasing damage.  You can disengage yourself from this
       "bonking trap" by simultaneously diving and moving either forward or
       backward.  You can also shoot and break up ice chunks with your 
       torpedoes.

MAELSTROMS- [Large spring-like things...]  Maelstroms -- turbulent underwater
       whirlwinds -- always throw you off course.  There's no way to avoid a
       maelstrom.  All you can do is wait until it hurls you out of its
       powerful swirl!

Enemy Subs
----------
   Each enemy sub has five torpedoes, so it can fire at you only five times. 
When YOU shoot and destroy an enemy sub, you receive all the enemy's
torpedoes remaining at the time you fired the hit.  You also receive extra
oxygen!  Plan your strategy and shoot enemy subs when your oxygen supply and
your torpedoes are low, as shown on your instrument panel.
   If an enemy sub becomes "aggressive," you will enter into Battle Mode (see
Battle Mode).  An enemy sub will become aggressive if you shoot one or more
of your torpedoes at it while it is in your sonar range.  An enemy sub can
also become aggressive if you are traveling at high speed within its range...
or even if he sights you in range without any provocation at all!

Damage Points
-------------
   Damage points are collected when objects are struck by your sub.  The
number of points increases with the speed of your sub on impact.  Damage
points are also collected objects explode within close range of your sub and
when you shoot a mine at close range.  As you collect damage points, some of
your sob's functions become non-operational.  These are as follows:

     Damage Points      Resulting Damage
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     0-10               No damage
     10-19              You lose your upper left torpedo tube
     20-29              You lose your upper right torpedo tube
     30-39              You lose your lower left torpedo tube
         NOTE:  If you have 40 or more damage points, it is impossible to
                dock with the survivors' pod.
     40-49              You lose your lower right torpedo tube
     50-59              You lose your survivors' pod arrow on the sonar
                        screen
     60-69              You lose your sonar display
     70-79              You lose control of speed
     80-89              You completely lose your engine speed and you're
                        dead in the water
     90-99              You lose your sub

   Your crew repairs the damage over time, so your damage points will get
lower if you are able to stay alive.

Battle Mode
-----------
   Battle Mode is entered whenever there is at least one aggressive sub in
your sonar range (see Enemy Subs).  While in Battle Mode, the words "BATTLE
MODE" will appear on your instrument panel, and your maximum speed is greatly
reduced.  An aggressive enemy sub will try to destroy your sub but will NOT
fire until he is in front of you AND is pointing at you.  Be extra alert in
Battle Mode because the enemy sub can fire even if he is too far in front of
you for you to see him from your viewing window.  Aggression is canceled when
an enemy sub fires... but it may be re-triggered immediately, so be careful! 
Docking with the survivors' pod is not possible while in Battle Mode (see
Docking Mode).

Docking Mode
------------
   Docking Mode enables you to successfully reach the survivors.  You enter
Docking Mode when the survivors' pod is in sight of your sub.  While in
Docking Mode, the words "DOCKING MODE" will appear on your instrument panel
and a new sonar display, which shows a "cross" and a "sight," will guide you
in this very sensitive docking maneuver.
   In order to successfully dock with the survivors' pod, you must line up
the "cross" in the exact center of the "sight"... WHILE MAINTAINING A VERY
SLOW SPEED.  If you are successful, you will see special docking sequence on
the screen during which the survivors will return to your ship.  The game
will then continue with a new search and rescue mission.

Number of Submarines
--------------------
   In each game you start with 5 submarines.  A bonus sub is awarded when you
score 25,000 points.

Scoring
-------
   Points are awarded as follows:

     Action                              Points
   ----------------------------------------------
     Docking                             5,000
     Destroying an Enemy Sub             1,000
     Destroying an Enemy Torpedo           750
     Destroying a Mine                     500
     Destroying an Ice Chunk               275


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu

