Pole Position 
-------------
   The spectacular arcade game, Pole Position, takes on an exciting new look
through the magic of Vectrex!  Experience all the challenge of a Grand Prix
racing event with non-stop action that'll leave you breathless!
   Do you possess the skill, dexterity and courage to pull out from the crowd
for qualification in one of the exclusive starting positions... or will you
end up as an also ran?

Controls
--------
Joystick:  Push right or left to change direction of your racer.
Button 1:  1st Gear.
Button 2:  2nd Gear.
Button 3:  Gas.  Press to accelerate, release to slow down.
Button 4:  Gas.  (Same as button 3)

Game Play
---------
   Pole Position transports you into the exciting sport of world class Grand
Prix auto racing.  Buckle yourself into your high performance Formula I
racer, adjust your safety helmet and get ready for an exhilarating and
danger-filled challenge.
   You first goal in Pole Position is to race through a lap fast enough to
qualify for one of the four exclusive starting positions -- passing
competitors and avoiding hazardous obstacles along the way.  Once you have
qualified, your challenge continues into four successive laps as you race to
maintain your position and complete laps in progressively shorter time
periods.
   As the game begins, you'll find yourself at the starting line of the world
renowned Fuji Speedway.  The words "Prepare To Qualify" will travel across
the screen and you will hear the sound of your engine starting.  The moment
your engine sound begins, you should take off on your qualifying lap.  Press
buttons 3 or 4 to accelerate.  When you hear your engine "laboring," change
to second gear by pressing button 2.  (Your speed will never exceed 135
m.p.h. in first gear.)  You can return to first gear during your lap by
pressing button 1.
   While you speed through your qualifying lap, be sure to avoid your
competitors' racers and the treacherous obstacles in the roadway -- contact
will mean loss your car!  There will be no warning of obstacles, so pay close
attention to the condition of the track.  Steer your car to avoid hazards and
gain a better track position by pushing the joystick either left or right.

   Although you are provided with an unlimited number of cars in Pole
Position, you will lose a great deal of time whenever a car is crashed.  So
be careful!  It is possible to drive off the speedway track -- but doing so
will slow you down, cost you valuable time and increase your chances of
losing a car.
   You are provided with 120 seconds to complete your qualifying lap --
although you must complete the lap well ahead of 120 seconds to qualify for
on of the four starting positions.  If you qualify, you will be provided with
90 seconds to complete your first actual race lap.  Completion of the first
lap within the 90 second time period permits you to continue with a second,
third and fourth lap which must be completed in 60 seconds.  During the
actual race, the time remaining on the clock after completion of a lap will
be carried over to the next lap -- allowing you more than the usual time
provided to complete the lap.
   Game play will continue until you are unable to complete a lap in the
allowable time or when you have completed all four race laps.  If you
complete all four laps, you'll receive 200 bonus points for each second
remaining on the clock!
   You will also earn points for distance traveled on the track, competitor's
cars passed, and having achieved a starting position on your qualifying lap.

Scoring
-------
     Action                            Points
   ------------------------------------------------------
     Passing competitor's cars          50 points per car
     Completing one lap                12,000
     Achieving first position           4,000
     Achieving second position          2,000
     Achieving third position           1,000
     Achieving fourth position            500
     Completing all four laps             200 Points for every second
                                              remaining on the clock.


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu

