Release 
... for Vectrex.

The game is a port of a game originally developed for iOS and Android by 
Gimogames. (http://www.gimogames.com/release/)

The port to Vectrex was done by permission of the original authors. 
Thank you for allowing me to port the game!
Gameplay
The game doesn't bother about a made up story of you defending some planet or 
whatever, it is a game without story.

The player can do only two things:
- press a button 
- release a button

These are the only controls you have in the entire game. The rest is "timing" 
the above "action".

The player "base" is in the middle of the screen represented by a polygon.

When you press the button the polygon grows (a shield) and also its covered area. 
When you release the button the polygon (shield) vanishes and everything that was 
covered by its area explodes.

All the while different enemies approach from all sides closing in to the center. 
Once they touch you (the small centered polygon) the game is over. 
In the beginning very few enemies appear, but the game soon gets quite stressful.

There are a couple of different enemy types:
- Terrible X (visualized by a "+" sign)
  The "basic" enemy that closes in on you - rather slowly
- Hidden X (visualized by a "+" (fading) sign)
  The X variant with a cloaking device. The closer this enemy is to the center,
  the more clearly it is visible.
- Hunter (visualized by a triangle)
  This one tracks you down and closes in on you quite fast.
- Bomber (visualized by an octagon)
  This one never comes near you, but the longer it stays alive, the faster it 
  fires its deadly shots at you
- Dragon (visualized by a diamond shape)
  The dragon spirals down on you. Two shots are needed to destroy this foe.
  Beware the accompanying small ships. Once the mother vessel is destroyed they
  will immediately rush in to destroy you.

There are also some friendly objects (which nonetheless can be destroyed):
- Stars (visualized by a star)
  These may spawn near to your base. Every 1-2 seconds they spawn bonus points. 
  The longer a star survives the higher the bonus points it spawns.
- Mystery (visualized by a "?")
  If the mystery reaches your base - your are awarded a special upgrade 
 (for a short period of time). The upgrade may be one of:
  - faster shield
  - wider shield
  - protection from death (base may be hit by one (ONE!) enemy - without 
    destroying the base)
  If the mystery is destroyed before touching the base, you are nonetheless 
  awarded a bonus score (variable).
Tips
The clue to get high scores are the little stars. 
At maximum three can be there at any time, they circle the player and are as 
easily destroyed by your shield as any other object.
Each second they provide you with bonus score, the longer they live the more 
bonus score you get. 
It starts with only 4 points per second, but if you play well can get up into 
the hundreds (up to 999).
Highscore
Whenever your last score is within the 5 highest scores - you will be enabled
to enter your initials and the scores will be saved.
To look at the highscore table - press button "2" while in the title screen.
Options
Pressing button "3" while in the title screen opens the options menu.
Here you can do (at least) three things:
- reset
  resets all options and the highscore (also on any used device)
- sfx on/off/half
  Whether you want sound effects enabled or disabled or the volume reduced.
- music
  Switch the music on or off.
Some "Finer points"
Difficulty
Internally the difficulty is set using two different schemes.
- automatically gets more difficult (spawn rate increases per time)
- "phases" are set after a certain spawn count

There are 33 "different" phases, which get increasingly more difficult. 
Phases can also define behaviors. 
Behaviors include:
- speed/width of shield
- spawn rate, and spawn rate increase speed/width
- speed of enemies
- forbid/allow certain enemy types (squads...)

Each phase increase is indicated by a certain "jingle" sound.

After phase 33 only the automatic difficulty increase is happening.
Worth to mention:
a) I think even I never reached phase 33
b) The automatic increase is for the last phase configured quite slowly, 
   but finally can get so "fast", that I think it is at some stage impossible.
   
Scoring
Only one rule to get high scores: DO NOT DIE!

Apart from that different "strategies" can be followed:
a) Bonus Stars
Try to keep the stars alive - if all three is to difficult, concentrate on 
keeping one alive. Every 1-2 seconds a star rewards point. It starts with 
4 points, but can go up to 999 points. The highest I ever had the stars was 3 
stars at around 300-400 - once you can hold the stars a while at that 
score - you get really high scores.

When you chose this strategy use every bonus "?" you get to make live easier. 

b) + c)
Please figure them out yourself.
