Overview                              

Revector is a seven minute timed match between two players that must score higher than their opponent by shooting their vehicle. Energy and health is limited and power-ups can be collected and used to a player’s advantage.
Gameplay                              

Each game lasts seven minutes. Player one’s vehicle always starts off a round on the right side of the screen whereas player two’s vehicle always starts off on the left. Players can accelerate their vehicles all over the playfield unless they hit a screen edge, which will bounce them in the opposite direction. Players can also bounce off of their opponent without taking any damage.

With each time a player fires, they will use up some of their energy. Energy gets replenished over time as long as a player does not shoot. Five projectiles can be fired at a time (with energy permitting), which, if they do not make contact with a vehicle, will bounce off the playfield’s walls up to three times before self-destructing upon hitting a fourth wall and that player can begin firing again (as long as they have reserve energy).

In game one (see Game variations section below), two firing options are available: the semi-automatic weapon (using button four on the controller) and the automatic weapon (button three). The automatic weapon only fires one projectile at a time whereas the semi-automatic weapon will fire off as many shots as allowed per energy remaining. If a player has picked up the smart bullet power-up, then those are fired with button four.

Once a vehicle takes a hit from a projectile, their energy will start depleting; once they are out of energy then they will lose that vehicle, the other player will be awarded points and the next round will begin. Players’ health is automatically fully recharged with each new round but their energy takes time to do the same. The game timer, players’ health and energy bars appear at the top of the screen (the latter two will appear for each player on the top corners of the screen).

Power-up items (available in game one) appear randomly on the playfield to be picked up by players, having various effects and lasting either a certain time or with a set amount of uses. If neither player picks up an item after several seconds they will disappear.

Once a game’s seven minutes have run out, the game will end once one or both players have destroyed the others’ vehicle (or they destroy each other at the same time).
Power-up items                              

    Health Recharge–fully charges a player’s vehicle’s health to maximum
    Energy Recharge–fully charges a player’s vehicle’s energy reserve to maximum
    Money–gives player 1000 points
    Freeze–freezes a player’s vehicle for several seconds, although that player can still fire (note: this is an arrow that changes direction. If it is collected when it is facing left, player two is frozen. If it is collected when facing right, player one is frozen. A player can also freeze themselves)
    Invisible–makes player’s vehicle invisible for a short time, although it will briefly become visible when hit by a projectile
    Smart Bullets–adds 10 Smart Bullets to a player’s cache. These bounce off walls towards the opponent’s vehicle 

Game variations                              

    Game one–regular game with power-up items
    Game two–no power-up items
    Game three–same as game two, but with no automatic weapon
    For either one player against the computer or two players simultaneously 

Scoring                              

    Shoot opponent–100 points
    Player shoots themself–100 points awarded to opponent
    Destroy opponent–1500 points
    Collect Health Recharge power-up item: 25 points
    Collect Energy Recharge–75 points
    Collect Money–1000 points
    Collect Freeze–125 points
    Collect Invisible–200 points
    Collect Smart Bullets–150 points 

Controls                              
Game options screen                              

    Choose number of players–button one
    Choose game variation–buttons two and three
    Start game–button four 

(in-game)                              

    Turn vehicle–left/right on joystick or D-pad
    Move forward–up on joystick or D-pad
    Move backwards–back on joystick or D-pad
    Fire automatic weapon (when applicable)–button three
    Fire semi-automatic weapon/Smart Bullets (when applicable)–button four 