Solar Quest 
-----------
   How many types of alien vessels will you be able to destroy?  Seven
different types are after you.  You must first destroy them and then attempt
to rescue the survivors before that float into the sun.  Don't get your ship
too close to the sun... its high temperatures can destroy you.

Controls
--------
Joystick:  Rotates your alien destroying ship.
Button 1:  Hyperspace.
Button 2:  Nuke.  Fires Nukes at alien vessels.
Button 3:  Thrust.
Button 4:  Fire.

Game Play
---------
   The first group of aliens will fly on to the screen.  Use the joystick to
rotate your ship and button 3 to move forward.  You must try to destroy the
ships before they collide with you.  To destroy alien vessels one at a time,
press button 4 to fire rockets.  You can destroy many alien vessels at the
same time by using button 2, the Nuke.  Press this button once to fire the
Nuke and a second time to release its force.  The number of remaining Nukes
are shown at the bottom of the screen.
   Button 1 allows you to move mysteriously on the screen to avoid begin hit. 
Use it cautiously... it might put you in an even more difficult predicament.
   Once an alien vessel is destroyed, its survivor will remain and float
toward the sun in the center of the screen.  You can earn extra points by
either destroying the survivors or picking them up in your craft before the
sun destroys them.
   As the game progresses, new types of aliens, who are even faster and more
deadly, will enter the field.

Getting Hit
-----------
   If an alien collides with you or you get to close to the sun, you will
lose one ship.  If you have additional ships left, you will return to the
field with the same type of alien that destroyed you.

Number of Ships
---------------
   In each game you start with 3 ships.  An extra ship is awarded for each 25
survivors rescued.

Scoring
-------
   Points are awarded for destroying the alien ships, os follows:
             Alien          Points
           -------------------------
            Alien 1           250
            Alien 2           300
            Alien 3           350
            Alien 4           400
            Alien 5           450
            Alien 6           500
            Alien 7           750

   After careful piloting, a ghost ship will appear.  You will earn 3500
points for destroying it.  If a survivor is destroyed, 250 points are earned. 
If a survivor is picked up, 1000 points are earned.  An extra Nuke is awarded
for each 10,000 points earned.


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu


