Space Frenzy (homebrew)

There's one thing you can say about John Dondzila and that's when he brings out a new game it is worth the wait. I got my Space Frenzy in the post yesterday. I have played it for around 2 hours ands it's the usual high quality.

 

If anybody doesn't know Space Frenzy it's alot like a sequal to Minestorm. The docking procedure is magnificant and the added artilery let's you're craft pack a punch. Slick design, digitized speech and chunky arcade sounds make Space Frenzy very worthy indeed.

 

It combines all the best elements of Gravitrex, some sound and some visual, and is instantly playable. Watch out for the aliens in stage 4 thought as they take some beating. The voices of the alien commander worked on 2 Vectrex units I tried it out on so there's no problem there at least on my 2 Vecs.

 

The vectors, and especially the design of the craft, are sharp and when enemies join forces and start to shoot back missiles at you're craft then this will take you back to the waves of enemies in Minestorm which did similar things. Getting back to the docking procedure...when you're craft docks it takes on added weapons. When docked you progress to the next level and the enemy get's tougher and craftier. When single enemies join forces and mass into one big enemy then expect the unexpected and rebound with mass firepower.

 

The plastic case is pratical and harks back to the old fashioned silver graph style box look. The cart has a good looking Vectrex label for the collector and it fits snuggly into it's case, and into the Vec, enforced by a rubber insert this time around. On the cartridge there is a playable demo of the yet to be completed 'Super Spike World'. You have to smile gleefully when playing this game as Spike jumps around the screen collecting goodies, avoiding Spud and swooping to platforms and riding ascending elevators. I really hope this Spike game get's completed. It's still a very playable demo just missing scoring and sound.

 

Overall the Space Frenzy cart is of the very best quality and at US$20.00 (+ shipping) worth every penny.

 

 

Review written by Daniel Foot
