Space Wars 
----------
   Who says there are no rules in intergalactic warfare.  Pick your own --
bounce, expanded universe, black hole -- as you embark on a deadly dogfight.

Controls
--------
Joystick: Rotates your destroyer.
Button 1: Select number of players.
Button 2: Hyperspace (and select game number).
Button 3: Thrust.
Button 4: Fire.

Game Selection
--------------
   You can select any of 7 different game play options.  Each game play option
determines the ship and bomb speed, as well as the type and amount of the sun's
gravity.  The game play options and their skill levels are as follows:
   Game        Skill          Ship and            Sun's
   Number      Level          Laser speed         Gravity
  ----------------------------------------------------------
     1         Beginner       Slow                None
     2         Intermediate   Moderate            None
     3         Intermediate   Fast                None
     4         Expert         Moderate            Moderate
     5         Expert         Moderate            Negative
     6         Expert         Moderate            Strong
     7         Expert         Fast                Strong

Game Play
---------
   Space Wars is a battle between 2 opposing space ships in a hostile space
field.  Each round begins with your ship appearing on the right side of the
screen and your opponent on the left.  In a two player game, the right control
panel manipulates the right ship and the left control panel manipulates the
left ship.  Steer your ship with the joystick and thrust forward by pressing
button 3.  As you move around space, beware of the meteorite.  It can destroy
you.  Button 4 fires lasers at your opponent.  The laser may destroy a portion
of the ship, but don't let a crippled ship fool you.  The fight is to the
death, so a crippled ship may fight back to win.
   Button 2 allows you to move mysteriously on the screen to avoid being hit. 
Use it cautiously... it might put you in an even more difficult predicament.
   The sun is found at the center and can be deadly if you collide with it.  Be
especially aware of its gravity forces!

Fuel and Laser Strength
-----------------------
   Each new ship has a fixed amount of fuel and laser strength.  As you travel
through space and fire lasers, you are using up their limited quantities.  The
quantity remaining for each ship is shown at the top of the screen with the
left number representing the fuel and the right representing laser strength.

Getting Hit
-----------
   Once a ship is destroyed, the score is shown and a fanfare is played.  If no
one has yet win the game, the next round is started.

Scoring
-------
   1 point is awarded each time your opponent is destroyed.  The game ends when
one ship has 10 points.


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu

