Spike
-----

Controls
--------
Joystick: Moves Spike backwards and forwards along the moving catwalks, and 
          helps him climb up and down ladders.
Button 1: Ladder/Cage- Changes the position of the ladder (and the cage on the 
          top level) and selects a game for one or two players.
Button 2: Kick left
Button 3: Kick right
Button 4: Jump- Allows Spike to jump over hazards.  Used with joystick.

Game play
---------
   Our lovely and innocent heroine, Molly, has been kidnapped by the evil Spud!
You will hear her cry, "Eek! Help, Spike!" as he drags her away. Only Spike can
save her from this awful fate.  As soon as Spike kicks open the door to the
villain Spud's hideaway shouting "Oh, no! Molly!", the game field appears. 
Spike enters on the bottom catwalk... and then YOU have control of him!
   There are three catwalks connected by a moveable ladder.  Above the top
catwalk, Molly has been imprisoned inside a cell.  To help Spike rescue her,
you must manoeuvre him to the top catwalk with the help of the ladder.  Move
him to the left or right and also make him climb the ladder with the joystick. 
If you want to make him jump a gap in the catwalks, press button 4 at the same
time as you move the joystick.  Press button 1 to move the ladder around and
help Spike get to Molly's rescue faster!
   You will also have to retrieve the key to unlock Molly's cell.  It will
appear in different places, so keep a sharp watch out!

Bouncers and Birds
------------------
   After your first round, you will face Spud's evil bouncers -- Spike's worst
enemies!  They'll do ANYTHING to keep Spike away from Molly's secret prison
cell!
   On the third and subsequent rounds, Birds join the Bouncers in their attack
on Spike.  Help Spike avoid them both -- and earn extra points -- by kicking
with buttons 2 and 3.  However, he cannot kick when he is on a ladder.

Rescuing Molly
--------------
   When Spike has retrieved the key to Molly's cell and reached the top level,
help him free his true love by positioning him under the cage and jumping to
rescue her!  If Spike is defeated, he will have to start again from the bottom
catwalk.  Spike will be defeated if he falls from a catwalk with no other
catwalks underneath, if he collides with side of the screen, or if he touches a
Bird or Bouncer.  Every time he is defeated you will hear him exclaim, "Darn
It!".
   Also, after the first round, Molly's bow will fall from her cell.  If Spike
catches it, all his opponents will freeze for a short time, allowing him to
advance more safely towards her cell.

More Difficult Levels
---------------------
   After the first three levels of game play, Spud's creatures begin to move
faster with each level.  When you have earned between 12,000 and 15,000 points,
or after six rounds of play, the catwalks will change direction each time Spike
destroys a Bouncer or Bird with his powerful kick.  Game play continues in the
one-player game until Spike has suffered four defeats (more if you earn extra
lives as you play).  Game play continues in the two-player game until both
players have suffered all their allowed defeats... the highest score determines
the winner!

Scoring
-------
   Action                              Points
--------------------------------------------------
Kicking a Bouncer                      100
Kicking a Bird                         200
Getting a cell key                     500
Opening Molly's cell                  2000

Earn one bonus life (an extra allowed defeat) for every 10,000 points.


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu

