Star Castle
-----------

   You and other experienced intergalactic voyagers have heard about and
shared the legend of Star Castle -- a mysterious fortress in a far away
galaxy filled with incredible riches and surrounded by revolving walls of
shimmering solid gold.  Yet no one, until now, has ever actually seen the
Castle -- or lived to tell about it!
   As you approach, you are overwhelmed with the beauty of the Castle but you
suddenly realize that the golden walls hide a deadly arsenal.  To survive you
must destroy the walls and the powerful Energy Cannon they shield.  Perhaps
you will be the first to survive the Star Castle's arsenal and prove the
legend true.  Perhaps not!

Controls
--------
Joystick:  Controls the rotation of your star cruiser.
Button 1:  Rotate left.
Button 2:  Rotate right.
Button 3:  Thrust.
Button 4:  Fire.

   Star Castle can be played as either a one or two-player game using the
built-in control panel.  In a two-player game, a second, optional control
panel can also be used.

Skill Levels
------------
   There are two skill levels for Star Castle.  Level 1 is the most
difficult, level 2 is the least difficult.

Game Play
---------
   As the commander of a highly maneuverable star cruiser, your mission in
Star Castle is to destroy the powerful and deadly Energy Cannon that is
shielded by three revolving octagonal walls.
   You skill and reflexes will be tested like never before as you attempt to
destroy sections of the Castle's walls in order to give you a direct line of
fire at the deadly Cannon.  At the same time you must avoid or destroy the
outer wall's energy bombs and the Cannon's awesome fireballs.
   Your mission will increase in difficulty as the game progresses.  The
longer it takes you to destroy the protective walls of the Castle, the more
aggressive the energy bombs will become.  And as you blast your way through
more sections of the walls, you will allow the Energy Cannon to fire directly
upon your cruiser with greater and greater accuracy.
   Your best chance for survival is to conduct your mission from the far
corners of the screen -- using your thrust to avoid the Castle's weapons. 
After striking the Castle, you can avoid retaliation by thrusting quickly
around the screen.  Use your reflexes and knowledge well -- you are provided
with only five star cruisers.  Perhaps you will be the first to destroy the
arsenal protecting the mysterious Star Castle.  Or perhaps you will be one of
the many never to escape its deadly beauty.

Star Cruiser
------------
   In Star Castle, you are provided with five highly maneuverable star
cruisers that shoot powerful missiles in bursts of four at a time.  (No more
than four missiles may appear on the screen at one time.)
   A cruiser will be destroyed when it is hit by either a fireball or energy
bomb.  If you should happen to actually bump one of the Castle walls, your
cruiser will bounce off in the opposite direction.  Thrust your cruisers
forward by pressing button 3.  Change course either by pushing buttons 1 & 2
or by using your joystick.

Castle Walls
------------
   The three revolving walls of the Star Castle are octagonal in shape, with
eight sections each.  Each section must be hit twice by your missiles in
order to be destroyed.  After the first hit, a wall section will glow --
indicating it requires one more hit to be destroyed.  The inner and outer
walls revolve in the same direction; the middle wall revolves in the opposite
direction.  When outer Castle walls are completely destroyed, the inner walls
quickly expand and a new wall forms around the Energy Cannon.
   Energy bombs are released at random from the outer walls.  These bombs
will track your cruiser until it is destroyed.  However, they can not follow
you if you thrust off the screen and they can de disarmed by your missiles. 
There is no limit to the number of energy bombs the Castle will release and
there are no points scored for disarming a bomb.

Energy Cannon
-------------
   The Energy Cannon, located at the center of the Castle and protected by
three revolving Castle walls, is a deadly adversary.  It will always track
your cruiser as you move around the screen and as the game progresses it will
move so quickly that it appears to blink into position.
   Each time there are gaps in all three walls that are lined up together,
the Energy Cannon will release a fireball directly at your star cruiser. 
Fireballs can not be destroyed with your missiles, they can only be avoided
by thrusting your cruiser off the screen.  These same gaps that allow the
Cannon to release fireballs at your star cruiser also enable you to take
direct aim at the Cannon to destroy it.  Use extreme caution and aim well!

Scoring
-------
   Points are awarded as follows:

       Target               Points
   -----------------------------------
    Outer wall section        10
    Middle wall section       20
    Inner wall section        30
    Energy Cannon            A bonus star cruiser

   Player one's score is displayed in the upper right corner and the second
player's score is shown in the upper left corner.  The number of star
cruisers remaining for your use is centered at the top of the playing area
below the scores.  Only nine star cruisers will be displayed at the top of
the screen at one time.  Those that are earned and are not displayed will
still be available for your use.


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu


