Starhawk
--------

   Fasten your seatbelt... you're the pilot defending the sovereignty of your
planet.  Don't blink -- you might miss one of the alien vessels.

Controls
--------
Joystick:  Moves your ships gunsight as you travel over the planet.
Button 1:  Unused.
Button 2:  Unused.
Button 3:  Unused.
Button 4:  Fire.

   Two controllers are required to two player games.

Game selection
--------------
   You have a choice of two game play options.  They are:

   GAME 1:  Your gunsight will move proportionally to the joystick movement.
            In other words, if you were to move the joystick slightly to the
            right, and then let it recenter itself, your gunsight would have
            moved slightly to the right and would remain there.

   GAME 2:  You gunsight will move in a direct ratio to the joystick
            movement.  In other words, if you want your gunsight to move to
            the right, you would push the joystick to the right and would
            have to hold the joystick there in order to keep the gunsight
            there.

Game Play
---------
   Fly over your planet, protecting your comrades from alien ships trying to
infiltrate your culture.  Use the joystick to aim your gunsight and press
button 4 to release your missiles toward the aliens.  You only have 60
seconds to prevent as many enemy craft as possible from getting through.
   In a two player game, you are both protecting the planet.  The action
builds as you compete to destroy the aliens!

Command Ships
-------------
   Every few seconds, an enemy Command Ship will signal his presence and
appear.  If you destroy him, the planet's rotation speeds up, you gunsight
will get larger for 5 seconds, and you will receive double points for any
other alien ships destroyed.

Scoring
-------
   Points are awarded for destroying each alien, as follows:

              Alien             Points
          -----------------------------------
            Command Ship         800
            Starship             500
            Rocket               300
            Missile              200
            Bomber               100

Bonus
-----
   A bonus of 20 seconds is awarded for each 10,000 points scored.  An
additional ship (up to four) will come into view.  However, your aim will
have to improve after each bonus because the ships will become more difficult
to hit.



z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu


