Star Trek: The Motion Picture
-----------------------------

Welcome, Captain Kirk, to your command on the Starship Enterprise.  Your mission
is to seek out and destroy the enemy Klingon Mothership.  Travel through nine
sectors of space, each more difficult, or take a shortcut through the Black
Hole.  Be careful... the Klingons and Romulans are hiding in space, waiting to
destroy you at every turn!

Controls
--------
Joystick:  Moves your ship through space from the pilot's view.
Button 1:  No function.
Button 2:  Power Link- Locks your ship on your Space Station door (to refuel)
           or in the Black Hole.
Button 3:  Shield.
Button 4:  Fire- at Klingons, Romulans, and their torpedoes.

Black Hole Sector Selection
---------------------------
   You can select which of the first eight sectors contains the Black Hole,
which is the shortcut to the enemy Klingon Mothership.  When  Game 1  appears on
the screen, press button 2 to change the sector in which you want the Black Hole
to appear.  For example, if you press button 2 twice,  Game 3  will appear on
the screen.  This will put the Black Hole in Sector 3.  If you do not choose a
particular sector, the Black Hole will be in Sector 1.

Starting Game Play
------------------
   Once you select the number of players and the sector of the Black Hole, press
button 4 to enter the first sector of space and start game play.
   If you do not press button 4 once the number of players and the sector of the
sector of the Black Hole are selected, the game will be in a self-play mode. 
Pressing any button when you are in this mode will return you to the beginning
of the game.
 Descriptions:  [My descriptions, the manual has little drawings..]
 -------------
  Klingons:  Have a triangle in the center of their ships.
  Romulans:  The other ships.  Flat, bat-like ships..
  Klingon Torpedoes:  Six-pointed star (asterisk).
  Romulan Torpedoes:  Four-pointed star.
  Black Hole:  Several concentric squares.
  Your Space Station:  Bowl-like with rotating "door."
  Enemy Klingon Mothership:  Large bad-ass ship.  You'll know it when you find
     it.  :)

Game Play
---------
   As Captain Kirk, you view the action from behind the windshield of the
Starship Enterprise. [Don't accuse me of that one, the manual says windshield] 
Use the joystick to maneuver your ship through space and aim your gunsight at
the appropriate target.  Use button 4 to fire lasers at your enemies and the
torpedoes they hurl at you.  If you can't hit the torpedo, press button 3 to
place a protective shield in front of your ship.  Your shield will cause the
torpedoes to bounce off.  If you destroy all the ships in a sector, you will
automatically move to the next sector.  Each new sector has more enemies who
move even faster.  If your clear out the first eight sectors, you will enter
Sector 9... and face the dreaded Klingon Mothership.

Getting Hit
-----------
   If you are hit by a torpedo, your windshield [Exactly how much wind IS in
space, anyway :)] will crack.  If you have additional ships left, you will be
given another chance to clear out the sector you are in.

The Black Hole
--------------
   Rather than fighting through all eight sectors in order to get to Sector 9,
you can take a shortcut through the Black Hole.  To enter the Black Hole, aim
your gunsight and press button 2, the Power Link.  You will automatically be
transported to Sector 9.  There is only one Black Hole in each game.

Klingon Mothership
------------------
   Sector 9 contains the deadly Klingon Mothership, which furiously shoots
torpedoes of all types at you.  The Mothership must be hit directly on the nose
in order to be destroyed.  Additionally, the Mothership can only be destroyed
when its nose is lit up.
   Beware... very few get out alive!  If you do manage to survive (somehow) you
will be automatically transported back to Sector 1 and the game will continue.

Laser Power and Shield Strength
-------------------------------
   Laser power and shield strength are limited.  The gauges are at the bottom of
the screen -- the line on the left is your remaining laser power and the line on
the right is your remaining shield strength.  Each of your ships will start with
full laser power and shield strength.  Keep an eye on your gauges.  When the
lines start to look low, you will need to refuel at your Space Station.  Watch
carefully each time you complete all nine sectors in a galaxy.  Every new galaxy
uses up lasers and shield at quicker rates.

Refuelling
----------
   Time your refuelling carefully because you only have 1 Space Station in each
sector.  To refuel, you must hook up with door of your Space Station by lining
up your gunsight with the door and then pressing button 2, the Power Link.  If
you make contact, the Space Station will freeze as your tanks fill up.
   [Not in manual- Normally, you are invincible while doing this (actually, the
enemy ships will not fire at you while you are docked).  However, if an enemy
torpedo has already been shot at you when you dock, it WILL hit you.  Watch out
for this...]

Number of Ships
---------------
   At the beginning of each game, you will have 3 ships.  A bonus ship is
awarded each time destroy the Mothership.

Scoring
-------
   Points are earned for destroying enemy ships, torpedoes, and the Mothership,
as follows:

   Object                 Points
  ------------------------------------
   Torpedo                300

   Romulans and           300 - 800    The farther the enemy is from you, the
   Klingons in                         more points you get.
   normal flight.

   Romulans and          1000
   Klingons
   banking near
   you ship.

   Mothership            5000

   Additionally, you are awarded a bonus of 1500 points for destroying all ships
in a sector.  No points are earned or lost for destroying your own Space
Station.


