Web Wars
--------

   Enter a galaxy of the future filled with adventure and danger -- a galaxy
unlike any you have imagined before.
   You become the Hawk King -- a creature capable of incredible speed and
power -- as you attempt to capture the amazing creatures that inhabit the
speeding Web of Fantasy.  All 20 creatures are protected by guardians and the
dreaded Cosmic Dragon and each will become progressively more difficult to
capture.  No one has ever captured the elusive twentieth creature.  Will you?

Controls
--------
Joystick: Controls the movement of Hawk King.
Button 1: Exit Trophy Room.
Button 2: Exit Trophy Room.
Button 3: Capture.  Activates Hawk King's capture rod.
Button 4: Fire.

Game Play
---------
   You become the Hawk King in Web Wars and you character will come into view
at the bottom of the screen.  You will be soaring through the Web of Fantasy in
search of the prized creatures that inhabit this part of the universe.  Your
mission is to safely navigate the Web while attempting to capture as many of
the 20 species of the creatures as you can for display in your Trophy Room.
   As you begin, you will encounter squadrons of deadly guardian Drones that
protect each of the creatures.  The Drones will attack you mercilessly and will
destroy Hawk King on contact.  Move quickly and cautiously through the Web
using your blaster to eliminate them.  The Drones may also be out-maneuvered in
flight, however they will return to follow you at a speed ten m.p.h. faster
than the speed you passed them.  You may slow down and allow these Drones to
get in front of you again to destroy them or speed up and leave them behind
you.  The greater speed you are traveling, the higher points scored for
destroying a Drone.
   When a creature appears, use the joystick to position Hawk King within the
Web so that you will meet it head-on and capture it with you Capture Rod.  Once
you have captured a creature, a portal will appear within the Web -- this leads
to your Trophy Room where you place the captured creatures on display.  Soar
through the portal and enter the seclusion of your Trophy Room.  When you are
prepared to return to the hunt, press either button 1 or 2, and you will be
transported back into the Web of Fantasy.
   If you fail to capture a species after two of its creatures have appeared,
or fail to enter a portal after two attempts, the dreaded Cosmic Dragon will
appear in the distance and rapidly approach you.  When you are within range, it
will shoot fireballs at you with deadly accuracy.  Unfortunately, you have no
defense against the Cosmic Dragon other than avoiding its fireballs with
split-second adjustments in your flight pattern.  Each time the Cosmic Dragon
appears, its accuracy will improve and it will fire a greater number of
fireballs.  Beware!
   As the Hawk King, you will be provided with five lives.  Use extreme caution
as you travel through the Web.  Contact with a guardian Drone, one of the
creatures or one of the Cosmic Dragon's fireballs will destroy one of your
lives.  Happy hunting!

Characters
----------
Hawk King- Through the magic of Web Wars, you are transformed into Hawk King,
           a creature capable of incredible power and speed.  You will be
           equipped with a blaster that will enable you to destroy the deadly
           guardian Drones that protect the fantasy creatures and a Capture
           Rod which you use to capture the devilishly shrewd creatures.
Drones-    The Drones are four-pointed, star-shaped bodies that travel in 
           squadrons protecting each of the 20 species of fantasy creatures.
           They may be destroyed with your blaster of avoided in flight.
           However if they are not destroyed, they will return to follow Hawk
           King 10 m.p.h. faster than the speed you were travelling when you
           originally passed them.
Fantasy Creatures- There are 20 species of these shrewd little creatures --
           each more difficult to capture than the one before.  Your blaster
           will have no effect on them whatsoever.  You can only capture them
           with your Capture Rod.  Capture as many as you can.  Maybe you'll
           be the first to see AND capture the elusive twentieth specie!
           Remember, that are as deadly as they are shrewd.  Contact with one
           of the creatures will result in a loss of one of your five lives.
Cosmic Dragon- The most deadly protector of the inhabitants of the Web, the
           Cosmic Dragon will appear if you fail to capture the creatures or
           gain entry to your Trophy Room after two attempts.  You can only
           avoid it through skillful flying.

Trophy Room- By soaring through one of the entry portals, you will be able to
           travel to your Trophy Room.  After capturing one of the species,
           mount it on your wall with the rest of your hunting trophies.  You
           may rest briefly in the seclusion of the Room and return to the hunt
           when you are again prepared to meet the challenge of the Web.  You
           will automatically be returned to the Web after 30 seconds if you
           haven't pushed one of the exit buttons.

Scoring
-------
Points are awarded as follows:
-------------------------------------------------
Fantasy Creatures             325 points per capture
Guardian Drones                75 points for each Drone, plus
                                  10 percent of the speed shown.
Trophy Room                   750 points each time you soar through
                                  a portal and enter your Trophy Room.

Bonus Scoring
-------------
An extra Hawk King life will be awarded at the following point levels:

    25,000 points
    50,000 points
    90,000 points
   250,000 points
   999,000 points


z_morganrw@ccsvax.sfasu.edu

