Karl Quappe 
===========

Contents of the package
-----------------------
The Vectrex version is provided as a downloadable zip file, which contains following files:

- Karl_Quappe.bin 
  Vectrex compatible binary, playable on vectrex or an emulator.
  This binary has all code for "permanency" enabled. To use this binary with a 
  VecFlash or VecMulti (or otherwise using PB6) device hold any button
  pressed during startup to skip the corresponding code) - otherwise
  the device will cause errors and the game won't start.
  
- Karl_Quappe_np.bin 
  Vectrex compatible binary, playable on vectrex or an emulator.
  This binary has all code for "permanency" disabled. Even using 
  a VecFever device - this version does not save options or highscores.

- KarlQuappe.txt
  This readme

- KarlQuappe  (directory)
  The sourcecode to the game. For further information look at the readme inside that
  folder.

Getting started
------------
a) Insert the cartridge and power up your vectrex
or
b) put the binary (corresponding to your "flash" card) onto the card. Insert the card and 
   power up your vectrex.

Permanency
----------
The game was developed to allow highscores and options to be saved to attached "devices".
Supported devices are:
- One wire eprom DS2431A
  A cartridge with such a device connected to the PB6 pin of the cartridge port can be used
  to store highscores and options.
  The device will be automatically recognized.
- VecFever
  If the game is run from a VecFever cartridge, options and highscores can be saved to that device.
  The device is automatically recognized.

The auto detection code needs to access the PB6 pin of the cartridge port. Since some available
multicard implementations also use PB6 to communicate, this feature may cause trouble if 
Karl_Quappe is run form such devices (namely VecFlash and VecMulti - but maybe others).

There are ways to circumvent these problems:
a) use the binary "Karl_Quappe_np.bin" - this has all PB6 communication disabled
b) while the game is started press any button until "Karl_Quappe" is displayed (the circling title).
   If the cartridge is started with a button pressed, all PB6 access is circumvented.
c) in case of the VecMulti you can also "double" the "Karl_Quappe.bin" ROM - so that it is
   64kB instead of 32kB. The VecMulti actually supports bankswitching and on access of PB6 it
   switches the 32kB bank to an "empty" bank. To accomodate that - double the ROM.

Copyright
---------
The game Karl_Quappe for Vectrex is released as public domain.

The source code is also public domain - in so far that I am able to (see accompanying Readme).

You are explicitly allowed to look at the code and reuse it or even learn from it.
You are explicitly allowed to make copies of the game and spread it. You can put it onto multicard 
collections or even distribute it as a package on its own.

Please do not abuse this generous gesture.

Instruction
-----------  

Introduction
............

Karl needs to get home quickly!

His way home is encumbered with dangers. 

First he must cross a highway - avoid cars, 
trucks and other vehicles.

Than he must cross a rapid river to finally reach 
his home.Mortal enemies try to enhance their diet with 
fresh frog-meat, can you outsmart them?

Rumors have it, there is even a (frog-)damsel in 
distress, can you rescue her?

Starting Karl Quappe
....................

Cartridge
- Make sure your Vectrex is switched off.
- If you have a Karl Quappe Cartridge, insert it into
  the Vectrex Cartridge port. 
- Turn your Vectrex on.

VecMulti
- select Karl Quappe in your VecMulti
- start it

VecFlash - or possibly other mutli carts
- select Karl Quappe
- start it
- after the initial bootup screen of vectrex keep any 
  of the buttons 1-4 pressed to skip over code, which 
  interferes with PB6 based bankswitching multi-cards.


Title screen
............
While the title is displayed you can the buttons of 
joystick 1 to procede to different sections.

BUTTON 1
Starts the game with the current selected options.

BUTTON 2
Displays the current high scores. Using the Joystick 
(left/right) displays either the competition or the 
hardcore high scores.

BUTTON 3
Immediatly enters the next attract mode "level".
(The attract mode will be entered automatically after
the title screen has been displayed a certain amount 
of time)

BUTTON 4
Enters the options menu.

Options
.......

While the title screen is displayed, press button 4 to
enter the options screen.
You can navigate the menu using the joystick (up/down). 

To alter an option use either joystick (left/right) or 
press any button.

To leave the menu enable the "BACK" entry and press any 
button. 
If you are using a VecFever, pressing button 4 while on
"BACK" entry will exit to the VecFever menu
(thus pressing 4 and 4 while the title is displayed
 sends you back to VecFever).

In the options menu you can chose the following entries:

- number of players
- game mode
- music on/off
- level (for training mode)
- reset storage


PLAYERS
Chose the number of players (one or two). 
If you select a two player game the game mode
automatically switches to "COMPETITION", since only that 
mode supports a two player game.
Two players play alternately after each live.

GAME MODE
There are three different game modes.

COMPETITION
is the default game mode. 
- high scores can be achieved and saved to the cartridge
- 1 and 2 player games are possible
- each player has 5 lives
- every 10,000 points a new live is awarded
- the game always starts at level 1

TRAINING
- high scores are not supported
- only 1 player games are possible
- each player has 5 lives
- every 10,000 points a new live is awarded
- game can be continued after final death (score is reset)
- the game starts at level 1
- after once reaching 40,000 points in COMPETITION mode
  you can enter freely what level you would like to train

HARDCORE
- special hardcore high scores can be achieved and 
  saved to the cartridge
- only 1 player games are possible
- each player has 1 live
- no extra live is awarded
- no in game specials can be found

MUSIC ON/OFF
An option to switch of the music. This applies to
both ingame music and title music.

LEVEL
Once you achieve a score of 40,000 points or higher in 
COMPETITION mode. You can enter a start level for your
TRAINING mode games.

RESET STORAGE
The Cartridge memory can be erased.
This resets the cartridge memory to its default values,
with no highscore and all options are reseted.

This also resets (if applicable) VecFever storage.

BACK
will exit to the title screen.
If you are using a VecFever pressing button 4 
will exit to the VecFever menu.

Gameplay
........
Using the joystick you can move Karl across the screen.

The player must guide Karl his home. First Karl must cross a road 
where he has to find his way over street occupied by different 
vehicles. Touching such a vehicle is fatal.

After an intermediate pause in the middle of the screen, Karl has
to cross a river using a series of different objcts like logs 
and turtles or even crocodiles he can jump on.

And finally reach his home. 
(5 different homes per level)

Hazzards and Helpers

Street
Touching any part of any of the following car
is instant death to Karl.

- Caterpillar
- Race cards
- Speedcar
- Car
- Van

Water
These object in general can be jumped upon.

- Log
  Save to be used for transport.
- Turtle
  Beware, some turtles dive. If a turtle dives while 
  Karl is on its back, Karl drowns.
- Crocodile
  You can jump on the back of a crocodile and use it 
  as transport. But beware, if you go to close to 
  its mouth you will become dinner!
- Otter
  Otters may swim in the water. Beware! Otters are known
  to snatch unaware frogs of right of the edge of a log!
- Girls
  There are rumors that there might be girls lingering
  near the water, waiting for a suitable mate. If you
  happen to see a girl - jump for it!  
  
Home
Different objects can be inside a home.
- Fly
Flies are food - you get 200 bonus points.

- Crocodile
The crcodile wants to eat you. Once the full head of 
a crocodile is visible in a home - it becomes a death trap!

- Occupants
If a home is already occupied by a "brother", you can not
enter it any longer, doing so anyway will result in deatch.

Others
- Snake
For a snake frogs are delicious diet. If Karl happens to be
near a snakes mouth - he will be eaten!

Scoring
- each jump forward (up) 10 points (backwards -10 points)
- finish a level befor the timer runs out, the timer rest 
  gives bonus scores (10 points per tick)
- reach home with a girl carried (200 points)
- catch a fly in the home (200 points)
- complete a level (500 points)
- ...  
  
Possible deaths
- running out of time
- get run over by a vehicle
- drown in the water
- get drowned by a turtle dive
- getting carried out of bounds
- missing your home
- trying to enter an already occupied home
- get eaten by a snake
- get eaten by a crocodile in the water
- get eaten by a crocodile in your home
- get eaten by an otter


Emulation
---------
The game KarlQuappe uses some features that are not emulated by all emulators.
The best emulation known can be viewed using Vide.

The graphics using e.g. ParaJVE look broken. The game functions normally though.

Thanks
------

VTK
For his support and enthusiam throughout the development phase of the game.
Also - your testing really helped to shape the
outcome of KarlQuappe.

Thomas Sontowski
For his tips and his wonderfull VecFever device. It is a pleasure to use it as a development
tool!

George  Anastasiadis
Also your enthusiasm, testing and spreading word over to you greek colleagues.

Jacek Selanski
For additional testing and refining some of the graphics.

Me - Malban :-)
For building Vide - it is a fantastic development tool for vectrex. 
It's a little bit hard to get into - but at least I didn't have any difficulties at all.
The support for VecFever and the possible trial/error rapid prototyping/development 
opportunities - I do not want to miss. 
Also Vecci (which is even harder to get into) allows very efficient vector drawings and 
placing them into the code.
[I do not even mention the YM, SFX and the new Arkos Tracker/player stuff]

More Info
---------
There is a blog concering all things "Vide":
vide.malban.de

If you would like to have more information about "vectrex" in general - and its homebrew "scene"
go the the "Vide" homepage and look under the section "links".
