The following is promotional literature that appears to me to be
intended for consumption by potential employees.  I have seen lots of
similar literature distributed by companies at job fairs and other
similar gatherings.

GCE [TM]
General Consumer Electronics Corp.

WHO WE ARE:
GCE is a consumer electronics company dedicated to translating today's
electronics technology into tomorrow's successful consumer products.

GCE's management have extensive backgrounds in the creation, development
and marketing of successful consumer products with America's foremost
companies.  Importantly, GCE's experienced management has demonstrated a
unique ability to match existing/emerging electronics technology with
consumer needs and wants; thereby, creating innovative products that
will succeed in the marketplace.

WHAT WE DO:
The activities of GCE are divided into 4 areas:

1. PRODUCT CREATION
Product creation begins with the extensive up-to-date knowledge of
available electronics technology.  This knowledge is supplemented by
input from leading semiconductor companies, who frequently share
technology with us in the expectation that new end uses for their
components will emerge.

Technology is converted into product ideas by continually conducting
idea generation sessions, using professionals from a variety of
disciplines to generate fresh thinking.  Many independent inventors also
bring ideas to GCE due to our reputation for innovation.

Product ideas are then refined and evaluated in consumer research, using
sophisticated techniques.

2. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
Product ideas which pass the consumer research screen are brought to
life under the direction of our experienced product development group.
When appropriate, we turn to independent resources to assist in this
process.  Under our close supervision, only the best available resources
are used.

We keep the consumer paramount throughout the development process,
striving to ensure that the product fits the originally identified
consumer need and will be easy to use and maintain.  When necessary, we
interrupt the development process for additional research as a way to
confirm our judgement.

3. MANUFACTURING
The two principles followed by GCE in manufacturing are Quality and
On-Time Deliver.  To guarantee that these principles are met, we have
engaged in a joint venture with our manufacturing partner, General
Electronics (Hong Kong) Ltd.  We both share the risks and rewards.  This
unique approach results in greater involvement on the part of the
manufacturer than results from the traditional practice of using
contract manufacturers.  All of our products are manufactureed under
this arrangement.

4. MARKETING
The marketing and distribution arm for our products is GCE Marketing
Services, a division of GCE.  GCE Marketing Services is managed by
professionals with impressive track records in the sales and
distribution of both toys and consumer electronics products.

The guiding philosophy of our sales operation is to place product only
in those outlets, and in those quantities, that will maximize the
probability of a complete sell-through.

We believe that our responsibility does not end when we have achieved
distribution for a product.  Accordingly, we emphasize packaging,
display, promotion and advertising which will motivate consumers to pull
our products through the retail outlets.

THE PARTNERS
We believe that our potential for success is maximized by developing
close relationships with other quality organizations which can
contribute to our enterprise.

The principal investor and general partner in GCE is Marketing
Corporation of America.  Our joint venture partner engaged in the
manufacture of all of our products is General Electronics (Hong Kong)
Ltd.

THE PEOPLE
GCE seeks to attract only those individuals with highly successful
records of achievement in relevant industries.  We keep our organization
lean in order to remain responsive to changes in the marketplace, to
ensure that experienced senior people are involved in the major aspects
of our business, and that we are sensitive to our customers' needs.
